Continuous-wave Raman Lasing in Aluminum Nitride Microresonators

  We report the first investigation on continuous-wave Raman lasing in
high-quality-factor aluminum nitride (AlN) microring resonators. Although
wurtzite AlN is known to exhibit six Raman-active phonons, single-mode Raman
lasing with low threshold and high slope efficiency is demonstrated. Selective
excitation of A$_1^\mathrm{TO}$ and E$_2^\mathrm{high}$ phonons with Raman
shifts of $\sim$612 and 660 cm$^{-1}$ is observed by adjusting the polarization
of the pump light. A theoretical analysis of Raman scattering efficiency within
${c}$-plane (0001) of AlN is carried out to help account for the observed
lasing behavior. Bidirectional lasing is experimentally confirmed as a result
of symmetric Raman gain in micro-scale waveguides. Furthermore, second-order
Raman lasing with unparalleled output power of $\sim$11.3 mW is obtained, which
offers the capability to yield higher order Raman lasers for mid-infrared
applications.


Epitaxial Growth and Band Structure of Te Film on Graphene

  Tellurium (Te) films with monolayer and few-layer thickness are obtained by
molecular beam epitaxy on a graphene/6H-SiC(0001) substrate and investigated by
in situ scanning tunneling microscopy and spectroscopy (STM/STS). We reveal
that the Te films are composed of parallel-arranged helical Te chains
flat-lying on the graphene surface, exposing the (1x1) facet of (10-10) of the
bulk crystal. The band gap of Te films increases monotonically with decreasing
thickness, reaching ~0.92 eV for the monolayer Te. An explicit band bending at
the edge between the monolayer Te and graphene substrate is visualized. With
the thickness controlled in atomic scale, Te films show potential applications
of in electronics and optoelectronics.


