Topological Dirac states beyond $π$ orbitals for silicene on SiC(0001)
  surface

  The discovery of intriguing properties related to the Dirac states in
graphene has spurred huge interest in exploring its two-dimensional group-IV
counterparts, such as silicene, germanene, and stanene. However, these
materials have to be obtained via synthesizing on substrates with strong
interfacial interactions, which usually destroy their intrinsic
$\pi$($p_z$)-orbital Dirac states. Here we report a theoretical study on the
existence of Dirac states arising from the $p_{x,y}$ orbitals instead of $p_z$
orbitals in silicene on 4H-SiC(0001), which survive in spite of the strong
interfacial interactions. We also show that the exchange field together with
the spin-orbital coupling give rise to a detectable band gap of 1.3 meV. Berry
curvature calculations demonstrate the nontrivial topological nature of such
Dirac states with a Chern number $C = 2$, presenting the potential of realizing
quantum anomalous Hall effect for silicene on SiC(0001). Finally, we construct
a minimal effective model to capture the low-energy physics of this system.
This finding is expected to be also applicable to germanene and stanene, and
imply great application potentials in nanoelectronics.


Bose Symmetry Interference Effects of $4π$ Final States

  We carefully analyze the relative branching ratios of $4\pi$ final states
$\pi^+\pi^-\pi^+\pi^-$, $\pi^+\pi^-\pi^0\pi^0$ and $\pi^0\pi^0\pi^0\pi^0$, from
various resonances of $J^{PC}=0^{++}$, $0^{-+}$, $2^{++}$. We find that the
Bose symmetry interference effects would make their ratios to obviously differ
from the naive counting values without considering these effects. The results
should be applied to estimate correctly various $4\pi$ decay branching ratios
of relevant resonances.


Designing substrates for silicene and germanene: First-principles
  calculations

  We propose a guideline for exploring substrates that stabilize the monolayer
honeycomb structure of silicene and germanene while simultaneously preserve the
Dirac states: in addition to have a strong binding energy to the monolayer, a
suitable substrate should be a large-gap semiconductor with a proper
workfunction such that the Dirac point lies in the gap and far from the
substrate states when their bands align. We illustrate our idea by performing
first-principles calculations for silicene and germanene on the Al-terminated
(0001) surface of Al2O3 . The overlaid monolayers on Al-terminated Al2O3(0001)
retain the main structural profile of the low-buckled honeycomb structure via a
binding energy comparable to the one between silicene and Ag(111). Unfolded
band structure derived from the k-projection method reveals that gapped Dirac
cone is formed at the K point due to the structural distortion and the
interaction with the substrate. The gaps of 0.4 eV and 0.3 eV respectively for
the supported silicene and germanene suggest that they may have potential
applications in nanoelectronics.


Dirac node lines in pure alkali earth metals

  Beryllium is a simple alkali earth metal, but has been the target of
intensive studies for decades because of its unusual electron behaviors at
surfaces. Puzzling aspects include (i) severe deviations from the description
of the nearly free electron picture, (ii) anomalously large electron-phonon
coupling effect, and (iii) giant Friedal oscillations. The underlying origins
for such anomalous surface electron behaviors have been under active debate,
but with no consensus. Here, by means of first-principle calculations, we
discover that this pure metal system, surprisingly, harbors the Dirac node line
(DNL) that in turn helps to rationalize many of the existing puzzles. The DNL
is featured by a closed line consisting of linear band crossings and its
induced topological surface band agrees well with previous photoemission
spectroscopy observation on Be (0001) surface. We further reveal that each of
the elemental alakali earth metals of Mg, Ca, and Sr also harbors the DNL, and
speculate that the fascinating topological property of DNL might naturally
exist in other elemental metals as well.


Epitaxial Growth of Large-area Bilayer Graphene on Ru(0001)

  Large-area bilayer graphene (BG) is grown epitaxially on Ru(0001) surface and
characterized by low temperature scanning tunneling microscopy. The lattice of
the bottom layer of BG is stretched by 1.2%, while strain is absent from the
top layer. The lattice mismatch between the two layers leads to the formation
of a moire pattern with a periodicity of ~21.5 nm and a mixture of AA- and
AB-stacking. The root3 x root3 superstructure around atomic defects is
attributed to the inter-valley scattering of the delocalized pi-electrons,
demonstrating that the as-grown BG behaves like intrinsic free-standing
graphene.


Detection of a superconducting phase in a two-atom layer of hexagonal Ga
  film grown on semiconducting GaN(0001)

  The recent observation of superconducting state at atomic scale has motivated
the pursuit of exotic condensed phases in two-dimensional (2D) systems. Here we
report on a superconducting phase in two-monolayer crystalline Ga films
epitaxially grown on wide band-gap semiconductor GaN(0001). This phase exhibits
a hexagonal structure and only 0.552 nm in thickness, nevertheless, brings
about a superconducting transition temperature Tc as high as 5.4 K, confirmed
by in situ scanning tunneling spectroscopy, and ex situ electrical
magneto-transport and magnetization measurements. The anisotropy of critical
magnetic field and Berezinski-Kosterlitz-Thouless-like transition are observed,
typical for the 2D superconductivity. Our results demonstrate a novel platform
for exploring atomic-scale 2D superconductor, with great potential for
understanding of the interface superconductivity.


Dirac Fermion in Strongly-Bound Graphene Systems

  It is highly desirable to integrate graphene into existing semiconductor
technology, where the combined system is thermodynamically stable yet maintain
a Dirac cone at the Fermi level. Firstprinciples calculations reveal that a
certain transition metal (TM) intercalated graphene/SiC(0001), such as the
strongly-bound graphene/intercalated-Mn/SiC, could be such a system. Different
from free-standing graphene, the hybridization between graphene and Mn/SiC
leads to the formation of a dispersive Dirac cone of primarily TM d characters.
The corresponding Dirac spectrum is still isotropic, and the transport behavior
is nearly identical to that of free-standing graphene for a bias as large as
0.6 V, except that the Fermi velocity is half that of graphene. A simple model
Hamiltonian is developed to qualitatively account for the physics of the
transfer of the Dirac cone from a dispersive system (e.g., graphene) to an
originally non-dispersive system (e.g., TM).


High-$T_c$ $d^{0}$ ferromagnetism in a doped Mott insulator: the case of
  hydrogenated epitaxial graphene on SiC(0001)

  We show that the $d^{0}$ ferromagnetism with high Curie temperature ($T_c$)
can be achieved in the electron doped hydrogenated epitaxial graphene on some
certain SiC substrates through first-principles calculations. The pristine
systems are found to be a Mott insulator independent of SiC polytypes (2$H$,
4$H$ or 6$H$) which, however, play a significant role in the modulation of
magnetic interaction. Carrier doping enhances the ferromagnetic coupling due to
the double exchange mechanism and thus realizes the phase transition from
antiferromagnetism to ferromagnetism. A $T_c$ of around 400 K is predicted on
the 2$H$-SiC. We employ a non-degenerate Hubbard model to demonstrate how the
SiC affects the interfacial magnetism in intra-atomic Coulomb repulsion and
intersite hopping interactions.


Strain effect engineered in α-Al2O3/monolayer MoS2 interface by
  first principle calculations

  With the advances in low dimensional transition metal dichalcolgenides
(TMDCs) based metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor (MOSFET), the
interface between semiconductors and dielectrics has received considerable
attention due to its dramatic effects on the morphology and charge transport of
semiconductors. In this study, first principle calculations were utilized to
investigate the strain effect induced by the interface between Al2O3 (0001) and
monolayer MoS2. The results indicate that Al2O3 in 1.3nm thickness can apply
the strain of 0.3% on MoS2 monolayer. The strain effect monotonically increases
with the larger thickness of the dielectric layer. Also, the study on
temperature effect indicates the monotonic lattice expansion induced by the
higher temperature. Our study proposes that the dielectric engineering can be
an effective tool for strain effect in the nanotechnology.


