Mathematics of CLIFFORD - A Maple package for Clifford and Grassmann
  algebras

  CLIFFORD performs various computations in Grassmann and Clifford algebras. It
can compute with quaternions, octonions, and matrices with entries in Cl(B) -
the Clifford algebra of a vector space V endowed with an arbitrary bilinear
form B. Two user-selectable algorithms for Clifford product are implemented:
'cmulNUM' - based on Chevalley's recursive formula, and 'cmulRS' - based on
non-recursive Rota-Stein sausage. Grassmann and Clifford bases can be used.
Properties of reversion in undotted and dotted wedge bases are discussed.


Grade free product formulae from Grassmann Hopf gebras

  In the traditional approaches to Clifford algebras, the Clifford product is
evaluated by recursive application of the product of a one-vector (span of the
generators) on homogeneous i.e. sums of decomposable (Grassmann), multivectors
and later extended by bilinearity. The Hestenesian 'dot' product, extending the
one-vector scalar product, is even worse having exceptions for scalars and the
need for applying grade operators at various times. Moreover, the multivector
grade is not a generic Clifford algebra concept. The situation becomes even
worse in geometric applications if a meet, join or contractions have to be
calculated.
  Starting from a naturally graded Grassmann Hopf gebra, we derive general
formulae for the products: meet and join, comeet and cojoin, left/right
contraction, left/right cocontraction, Clifford and co-Clifford products. All
these product formulae are valid for any grade and any inhomogeneous
multivector factors in Clifford algebras of any bilinear form, including
non-symmetric and degenerated forms. We derive the three well known Chevalley
formulae as a specialization of our approach and will display co-Chevalley
formulae. The Rota--Stein cliffordization is shown to be the generalization of
Chevalley deformation. Our product formulae are based on invariant theory and
are not tied to representations/matrices and are highly computationally
effective. The method is applicable to symplectic Clifford algebras too.


Fundaments of Quaternionic Clifford Analysis II: Splitting of Equations

  Quaternionic Clifford analysis is a recent new branch of Clifford analysis, a
higher dimensional function theory which refines harmonic analysis and
generalizes to higher dimension the theory of holomorphic functions in the
complex plane. So-called quaternionic monogenic functions satisfy a system of
first order linear differential equations expressed in terms of four
interrelated Dirac operators. The conceptual significance of quaternionic
Clifford analysis is unraveled by showing that quaternionic monogenicity can be
characterized by means of generalized gradients in the sense of Stein and
Weiss. At the same time, connections between quaternionic monogenic functions
and other branches of Clifford analysis, viz Hermitian monogenic and standard
or Euclidean monogenic functions are established as well.


Plemelj Projection Operators over Domain Manifolds

  Plemelj projection operators are introduced for spaces of square integrable
functions defined over the boundaries of a class of compact real n-dimensional
manifolds lying in C^n. These manifolds posses many properties similar to
domains in R^n, and are consequently called domain manifolds. The key
ingredients used here are techniques from both real and complex Clifford
analysis. Analogues of the Kerzman-Stein kernel and Szego projection operators
ar introduced, and their conformal covariance is described.


On the Hopf algebraic origin of Wick normal-ordering

  A combinatorial formula of G.-C. Rota and J.A. Stein is taken to perform Wick
re-ordering in quantum field theory. Wick's theorem becomes a Hopf algebraic
identity called Cliffordization. The combinatorial method relying on Hopf
algebras is highly efficient in computations and yields closed algebraic
expressions.
  AMS Subject Classifications 2000: 81R50; 16W30


Szeg$\ddot{o}$ projection and matrix Hilbert transform in Hermitean
  Clifford analysis

  The simultaneous null solutions of the two complex Hermitean Dirac operators
are focused on in Hermitean Clifford analysis, where the matrix Hilbert
transform was presented and proved to satisfy the analogous properties of the
Hilbert transform in classical analysis and in orthogonal Clifford analysis.
Under this setting we will introduce the Szeg$\ddot{o}$ projection operator for
the Hardy space of Hermitean monogenic functions defined on a bounded subdomain
of even dimensional Euclidean space, establish the Kerzman-Stein formula which
closely connects the Szeg$\ddot{o}$ projection operator with the Hardy
projection operator onto the Hardy space of Hermitean monogenic functions
defined on a bounded subdomain of even dimensional Euclidean space, and get the
Szeg$\ddot{o}$ projection operator in terms of the Hardy projection operator
and its adjoint. Further we will give the algebraic and geometric
characterizations for the matrix Hilbert transform to be unitary in Hermitean
Clifford analysis.


Fourier Spectrum Characterizations of Clifford $H^{p}$ Spaces on
  $\mathbf{R}^{n+1}_+$ for $1\leq p \leq \infty$

  This article studies the Fourier spectrum characterization of functions in
the Clifford algebra-valued Hardy spaces $H^p(\mathbf R^{n+1}_+), 1\leq p\leq
\infty.$ Namely, for $f\in L^p(\mathbf R^n)$, Clifford algebra-valued, $f$ is
further the non-tangential boundary limit of some function in $H^p(\mathbf
R^{n+1}_+),$ $1\leq p\leq \infty,$ if and only if $\hat{f}=\chi_+\hat{f},$
where $\chi_+(\underline{\xi})=\frac{1}{2}(1+i\frac{\underline \xi}{|\underline
\xi|}),$ where the Fourier transformation and the above relation are suitably
interpreted (for some cases in the distribution sense). These results further
develop the relevant context of Alan McIntosh. As a particular case of our
results, the vector-valued Clifford Hardy space functions are identical with
the conjugate harmonic systems in the work of Stein and Weiss. The latter
proved the corresponding results in terms of the single integral form for the
cases $1\leq p<\infty.$


Hermitian Clifford Analysis and Its Connections with Representation
  Theory

  This work reconsiders the holomorphic and anti-holomorphic Dirac operators of
Hermitian Clifford analysis to determine whether or not they are the natural
generalization of the orthogonal Dirac operator to spaces with complex
structure. We argue the generalized gradient construction of Stein and Weiss
based on representation theory of Lie groups is the natural way to construct
such a Dirac-type operator because applied to a Riemannian spin manifold it
provides the Atiyah-Singer Dirac operator. This method, however, does not apply
to these Hermitian Dirac operators because the representations of the unitary
group used are not irreducible, causing problems in considering invariance
under a group larger than U(n). This motivates either the development of
Clifford analysis over a complex vector space with respect to a Hermitian inner
product or the development of Dirac-type operators on Cauchy-Riemann
structures.


Harmonic, Monogenic and Hypermonogenic Functions on Some Conformally
  Flat Manifolds in $R^n$ arising from Special Arithmetic Groups of the Vahlen
  Group

  This paper focuses on the development of harmonic and Clifford analysis
techniques in the context of some conformally flat manifolds that arise from
factoring out a simply-connected domain from $R^n$ by special arithmetic
subgroups of the conformal group. Our discussion encompasses in particular the
Hopf manifold $S^1 \times S^{n-1}$, conformally flat cylinders and tori and
some conformally flat manifolds of genus $g \ge 2$, such as $k$-handled tori
and polycylinders. This paper provides a continuation as well as an extension
of our previous two papers \cite{KraRyan1,KraRyan2}. In particular, we
introduce a Cauchy integral formula for hypermonogenic functions on cylinders,
tori and on half of the Hopf manifold. These are solutions to the Dirac-Hodge
equation with respect to the hyperbolic metric. We further develop
generalizations of the Mittag-Leffler theorem and the Laurent expansion theorem
for cylindrical and toroidal monogenic functions. The study of Hardy space
decompositions on the Hopf manifold is also continued. Kerzman-Stein operators
are introduced. Explicit formulas for the Szeg\"o kernel, the Bergman kernel
and the Poisson kernel of half the Hopf manifold are given.


An O(log log m)-competitive Algorithm for Online Machine Minimization

  This paper considers the online machine minimization problem, a basic real
time scheduling problem. The setting for this problem consists of n jobs that
arrive over time, where each job has a deadline by which it must be completed.
The goal is to design an online scheduler that feasibly schedules the jobs on a
nearly minimal number of machines. An algorithm is c-machine optimal if the
algorithm will feasibly schedule a collection of jobs on cm machines if there
exists a feasible schedule on m machines. For over two decades the best known
result was a O(log P)-machine optimal algorithm, where P is the ratio of the
maximum to minimum job size. In a recent breakthrough, a O(log m)-machine
optimal algorithm was given. In this paper, we exponentially improve on this
recent result by giving a O(log log m)-machine optimal algorithm.


Advance Service Reservations with Heterogeneous Customers

  We study a fundamental model of resource allocation in which a finite number
of resources must be assigned in an online manner to a heterogeneous stream of
customers. The customers arrive randomly over time according to known
stochastic processes. Each customer requires a specific amount of capacity and
has a specific preference for each of the resources, with some resources being
feasible for the customer and some not. The system must find a feasible
assignment of each customer to a resource or must reject the customer. The aim
is to maximize the total expected capacity utilization of the resources over
the horizon. This model has application in services, freight transportation,
and online advertising. We present online algorithms with bounded competitive
ratios relative to an optimal offline algorithm that knows all stochastic
information. Our algorithms perform extremely well compared to common
heuristics, as demonstrated on a real data set from a large hospital system in
New York City.


Fully Dynamic Matching in Bipartite Graphs

  Maximum cardinality matching in bipartite graphs is an important and
well-studied problem. The fully dynamic version, in which edges are inserted
and deleted over time has also been the subject of much attention. Existing
algorithms for dynamic matching (in general graphs) seem to fall into two
groups: there are fast (mostly randomized) algorithms that do not achieve a
better than 2-approximation, and there slow algorithms with $\O(\sqrt{m})$
update time that achieve a better-than-2 approximation. Thus the obvious
question is whether we can design an algorithm -- deterministic or randomized
-- that achieves a tradeoff between these two: a $o(\sqrt{m})$ approximation
and a better-than-2 approximation simultaneously. We answer this question in
the affirmative for bipartite graphs.
  Our main result is a fully dynamic algorithm that maintains a $3/2 + \eps$
approximation in worst-case update time $O(m^{1/4}\eps^{/2.5})$. We also give
stronger results for graphs whose arboricity is at most $\al$, achieving a $(1+
\eps)$ approximation in worst-case time $O(\al (\al + \log n))$ for constant
$\eps$. When the arboricity is constant, this bound is $O(\log n)$ and when the
arboricity is polylogarithmic the update time is also polylogarithmic.
  The most important technical developement is the use of an intermediate graph
we call an edge degree constrained subgraph (EDCS). This graph places
constraints on the sum of the degrees of the endpoints of each edge: upper
bounds for matched edges and lower bounds for unmatched edges. The main
technical content of our paper involves showing both how to maintain an EDCS
dynamically and that and EDCS always contains a sufficiently large matching. We
also make use of graph orientations to help bound the amount of work done
during each update.


Parallel Graph Connectivity in Log Diameter Rounds

  We study graph connectivity problem in MPC model. On an undirected graph with
$n$ nodes and $m$ edges, $O(\log n)$ round connectivity algorithms have been
known for over 35 years. However, no algorithms with better complexity bounds
were known. In this work, we give fully scalable, faster algorithms for the
connectivity problem, by parameterizing the time complexity as a function of
the diameter of the graph. Our main result is a $O(\log D \log\log_{m/n} n)$
time connectivity algorithm for diameter-$D$ graphs, using $\Theta(m)$ total
memory. If our algorithm can use more memory, it can terminate in fewer rounds,
and there is no lower bound on the memory per processor.
  We extend our results to related graph problems such as spanning forest,
finding a DFS sequence, exact/approximate minimum spanning forest, and
bottleneck spanning forest. We also show that achieving similar bounds for
reachability in directed graphs would imply faster boolean matrix
multiplication algorithms.
  We introduce several new algorithmic ideas. We describe a general technique
called double exponential speed problem size reduction which roughly means that
if we can use total memory $N$ to reduce a problem from size $n$ to $n/k$, for
$k=(N/n)^{\Theta(1)}$ in one phase, then we can solve the problem in
$O(\log\log_{N/n} n)$ phases. In order to achieve this fast reduction for graph
connectivity, we use a multistep algorithm. One key step is a carefully
constructed truncated broadcasting scheme where each node broadcasts neighbor
sets to its neighbors in a way that limits the size of the resulting neighbor
sets. Another key step is random leader contraction, where we choose a smaller
set of leaders than many previous works do.


