Cornell SPF: Cornell Semantic Parsing Framework

  The Cornell Semantic Parsing Framework (SPF) is a learning and inference
framework for mapping natural language to formal representation of its meaning.


Cohen-Macaulay classes which are not conic

  We provide two examples which show that for an affine semigroup ring the set
of Cohen-Macaulay classes can be larger than the set of conic classes.


Observations and predictions at CesrTA, and outlook for ILC

  In this paper, we will describe some of the recent experimental measurements
[1, 2, 3] performed at CESRTA [4], and the supporting simulations, which probe
the interaction of the electron cloud with the stored beam. These experiments
have been done over a wide range of beam energies, emittances, bunch currents,
and fill patterns, to gather sufficient information to be able to fully
characterize the beam-electron-cloud interaction and validate the simulation
programs. The range of beam conditions is chosen to be as close as possible to
those of the ILC damping ring, so that the validated simulation programs can be
used to predict the performance of these rings with regard to electroncloud-
related phenomena. Using the new simulation code Synrad3D to simulate the
synchrotron radiation environment, a vacuum chamber design has been developed
for the ILC damping ring which achieves the required level of photoelectron
suppression. To determine the expected electron cloud density in the ring, EC
buildup simulations have been done based on the simulated radiation environment
and on the expected performance of the ILC damping ring chamber mitigation
prescriptions. The expected density has been compared with analytical estimates
of the instability threshold, to verify that the ILC damping ring vacuum
chamber design is adequate to suppress the electron cloud single-bunch
head-tail instability.


The Cornell confining potential from spontaneous breaking of scale
  symmetry

  We show that one can obtain naturally the Cornell confining potential from
the spontaneous symmetry breaking of scale invariance in gauge theory. At the
classical level a confining force is obtained and at the quantum level, using a
gauge invariant but path-dependent variables formalism, the Cornell confining
potential is explicitly obtained.


A Dynamical Simulation Facility for Hybrid Systems

  This paper establishes a general framework for describing hybrid dynamical
systems which is particularly suitable for numerical simulation. In this
context, the data structures used to describe the sets and functions which
comprise the dynamical system are crucial since they provide the link between a
natural mathematical formulation of a problem and the correct application of
standard numerical algorithms. We describe a partial implementation of the
design methodology and use this simulation tool for a specific control problem
in robotics as an illustration of the utility of the approach for practical
applications.


Collapse of a randomly forced particle: a comment

  We refute the arguments by Anton in cond-mat/0004390, which set out to
disprove the existence of a collapse transition for a randomly forced inelastic
particle.


Theory Summary and Future Directions

  Summary talk at the Lepton-Photon Symposium, Cornell University, Aug. 10-15,
1993.


Missing solution in a Cornell potential

  Missing bound-state solutions for fermions in the background of a Cornell
potential consisting of a mixed scalar-vector-pseudoscalar coupling is
examined. Charge-conjugation operation, degeneracy and localization are
discussed.


TEDI: the TripleSpec Exoplanet Discovery Instrument

  The TEDI (TripleSpec - Exoplanet Discovery Instrument) will be the first
instrument fielded specifically for finding low-mass stellar companions. The
instrument is a near infra-red interferometric spectrometer used as a radial
velocimeter. TEDI joins Externally Dispersed Interferometery (EDI) with an
efficient, medium-resolution, near IR (0.9 - 2.4 micron) echelle spectrometer,
TripleSpec, at the Palomar 200" telescope. We describe the instrument and its
radial velocimetry demonstration program to observe cool stars.


From Declarative Languages to Declarative Processing in Computer Games

  Recent work has shown that we can dramatically improve the performance of
computer games and simulations through declarative processing: Character AI can
be written in an imperative scripting language which is then compiled to
relational algebra and executed by a special games engine with features similar
to a main memory database system. In this paper we lay out a challenging
research agenda built on these ideas.
  We discuss several research ideas for novel language features to support
atomic actions and reactive programming. We also explore challenges for
main-memory query processing in games and simulations including adaptive query
plan selection, support for parallel architectures, debugging simulation
scripts, and extensions for multi-player games and virtual worlds. We believe
that these research challenges will result in a dramatic change in the design
of game engines over the next decade.


Internet Scale Research Studies using SDL-RX

  Medical research is one area where collecting data is usually hard and
expensive. With the launch of ResearchKit, Apple and Sage Bionetworks made
large-scale personal data collection increasingly popular via simple text-based
survey apps running on mobile phones. But such surveys can be a barrier in
terms of usability and richness of the data being collected. In this paper, we
present SDL-R X , a powerful software library designed for ResearchKit that
enables study-specific, personalized, and rich visual surveys, for both iOS and
Android platforms.


"Birds in the Clouds": Adventures in Data Engineering

  Leveraging their eBird crowdsourcing project, the Cornell Lab of Ornithology
generates sophisticated Spatio-Temporal Exploratory Model (STEM) maps of bird
migrations. Such maps are highly relevant for both scientific and educational
purposes, but creating them requires advanced modeling techniques that rely on
long and potentially expensive computations.
  In this paper, we share our experience porting the eBird STEM data pipeline
from a physical cluster to the cloud, providing a seamless deployment at a
lower cost. Using open source tools and cloud "marketplaces", we managed to
divide the operating costs by a factor of 6, making it possible to scale our
pipeline on a research budget.


Analytic Solution of Dirac Equation for Extended Cornell Potential Using
  the Nikiforov-Uvarov Method

  The extended Cornell potential which the harmonic oscillator potential is
included in the original Cornell potential. The Dirac equation is solved by
reducing the Dirac equation to the form of Schrodinger equation. The
Nikiforov-Uvarov method is applied to obtain the energy eigenvalues and
corresponding wave functions. The obtained results are important to calculate
many characteristics of fermion relativistic particles.


Cornell Potential: A Neural Network Approach

  In this study, we solved Schr\"odinger equation with Cornell potential
(Coulomb-plus-linear potential) by using neural network approach. Four
different types of Cornell potential were used without a physical relevance.
Besides that charmonium and bottomonium spin-averaged spectra were also
calculated. Obtained results are in good agreement with the reference studies.


Cornell Model Calibration with NRQCD at N$^3$LO

  The typical binding energy of heavy hadron spectroscopy makes the system
accessible to perturbative calculations in terms of non-relativistic QCD.
Within NRQCD the predictions of heavy quarkonium energy levels rely on the
accurate description of the static QCD potential $V_{\rm QCD}(r)$.
  Historically, heavy quarkonium spectroscopy was studied using
phenomenological approaches such as the Cornell model $V_{\rm
Cornell}=-\kappa/r+\sigma\, r$, which assumes a short-distance dominant Coulomb
potential plus a liner rising potential that emerges at long distances. Such
model works reasonably well in describing the charmonium and bottomonium
spectroscopy. However, even when there are physically-motivated arguments for
the construction of the Cornell model, there is no conection a priori with QCD
parameters.
  Based on a previous work on heavy meson spectroscopy, we calibrate the
Cornell model with NRQCD predictions for the lowest lying bottomonium states at
N$^3$LO, in which the bottom mass is varied within a wide range. We show that
the Cornell model mass parameter can be identified with the low-scale
short-distance MSR mass at the scale $R = 1$ GeV. This identification holds for
any value of $\alpha_s$ or the bottom mass. For moderate values of $r$, the
NRQCD and Cornell static potentials are in head-on agreement when switching the
pole mass to the MSR scheme, which allows to simultaneously cancel the
renormalon and sum up large logarithms.


A note on low scale unification and gamma-gamma scattering

  In this note we study an interesting effect of low energy gravity on
photon-photon scattering at high energies.


Signature of Randall-Sundrum Quantum Gravity model in $γγ$
  scattering in the TeV range

  We examine the implications of the Randall-Sundrum gravity models on
$\gamma\gamma$ scattering in the TeV range.


Radion signature in $γγ$ scattering

  We investigate the phenomenological consequences of the possible existence of
the radion at a TeV-scale for $\gamma\gamma$ scattering in the TeV range. We
find that polarized cross-sections only give possible experimental signatures
for the radion.


Neutrino lensing and modification of Newtonian gravity at large
  distances

  The nature of the modification to neutrino lensing from galaxies, as caused
by possible modifications to Newtonian gravity at large distances, is studied.


Comments on Kormendy, Bender & Cornell (2011, Nature, 469, 374)

  Comments on Kormendy, Bender & Cornell's (2011, Nature, 469, 374) article
"Supermassive black holes do not correlate with galaxy disks or pseudobulges"
are provided. A number of scientific concerns regarding the data analysis and
conclusions are discussed. A broader historical perspective - difficult for
authors to supply within the confines of a Nature article - is also provided.


Heavy quarkonium properties from Cornell potential using variational
  method and supersymmetric quantum mechanic

  Using the variational method and supersymmetric quantum mechanic we calculate
in a approximate way eigenvalues, eigenfunctions and wave functions at origin
of Cornell potential. We compare results with numerical solutions for heavy
quarkonia $c\bar{c}$, $b\bar{b}$ y $b\bar{c}$.


Representations and geometric structures

  This note summarizes in an informal way some geometric properties of Anosov
representations into the symplectic group, which were presented in a talk at
the conference What is Next. The mathematical legacy of Bill Thurston, held in
June 2014 in Cornell.


Improved variational approach in semileptonic decay of B meson for the
  Cornell potential

  We obtain the wave function of mesonic systems interacting via a Cornell
potential by applying improved variational approach. We study Isgur-Wise
function and its parameters. Then we report our calculations on the parameters
of semileptonic decay of B and Bs mesons. B-->D*l$nu$ process is also
investigated in this work.


High-precision methods for Coulomb, linear confinement and Cornell
  potentials in momentum space

  We use special quadrature formulas for singular and hypersingular integral to
numerically solve the Schr\"{o}dinger equation in momentum space with the
linear confinement potential, Coulomb and Cornell potentials. It is shown that
the eigenvalues of the equation can be calculated with high accuracy, far
exceeding other calculation methods. Special methods of solution for states
with zero orbital angular momentum are considered.


Knowledge-Based Synthesis of Distributed Systems Using Event Structures

  To produce a program guaranteed to satisfy a given specification one can
synthesize it from a formal constructive proof that a computation satisfying
that specification exists. This process is particularly effective if the
specifications are written in a high-level language that makes it easy for
designers to specify their goals. We consider a high-level specification
language that results from adding knowledge to a fragment of Nuprl specifically
tailored for specifying distributed protocols, called event theory. We then
show how high-level knowledge-based programs can be synthesized from the
knowledge-based specifications using a proof development system such as Nuprl.
Methods of Halpern and Zuck then apply to convert these knowledge-based
protocols to ordinary protocols. These methods can be expressed as heuristic
transformation tactics in Nuprl.


The extraordinary mid-infrared spectral properties of FeLoBAL Quasars

  We present mid-infrared spectra of six FeLoBAL QSOs at 1<z<1.8, taken with
the Spitzer space telescope. The spectra span a range of shapes, from hot dust
dominated AGN with silicate emission at 9.7 microns, to moderately obscured
starbursts with strong Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon (PAH) emission. The
spectrum of one object, SDSS 1214-0001, shows the most prominent PAHs yet seen
in any QSO at any redshift, implying that the starburst dominates the mid-IR
emission with an associated star formation rate of order 2700 solar masses per
year. With the caveats that our sample is small and not robustly selected, we
combine our mid-IR spectral diagnostics with previous observations to propose
that FeLoBAL QSOs are at least largely comprised of systems in which (a) a
merger driven starburst is ending, (b) a luminous AGN is in the last stages of
burning through its surrounding dust, and (c) which we may be viewing over a
restricted line of sight range.


Quark-antiquark potential from a deformed AdS/QCD

  In this work we calculate the static limit of the energy for a
quark-antiquark pair from the Nambu-Goto action using a holographic approach
with a deformed AdS space, with warp factor $\exp\{(\kappa z)^n/n\}$.
  From this energy we derive the Cornell potential for the quark-antiquark
interaction. We also find a range of values for our parameters which fits
exactly the Cornell potential parameters. In particular, setting the zero
energy of the Cornell potential at 0.33 fermi, we find that $\kappa=0.56$ GeV
and $n=1.3$.


Calibrating the Naïve Cornell Model with NRQCD

  Building on results from a previous study on heavy meson spectroscopy, we
calibrate the Cornell model employing NRQCD predictions for the lowest-lying
bottomonium states up to N$^3$LO, in which the bottom mass is varied within a
wide range. We find that the Cornell model mass parameter can be identified,
within perturbative uncertainties, with the MSR mass at the scale $R = 1\,$GeV.
This identification holds for any value of $\alpha_s$ or the bottom mass, and
for all perturbative orders investigated. Furthermore we show that: a) the
`string tension' parameter is independent of the bottom mass, and b) the
Coulomb strength $\kappa$ of the Cornell model can be related to the QCD strong
coupling constant $\alpha_s$ at a characteristic non-relativistic scale. We
also show how to remove the $u=1/2$ renormalon of the static QCD potential and
sum-up large logs related to the renormalon subtraction by switching to the
low-scale, short-distance MSR mass, and using R-evolution. Our R-improved
expression for the static potential remains independent of the heavy quark mass
value and agrees with lattice QCD results for values of the radius as large as
$0.8\,$fm, and with the Cornell model potential at long distances.


Nonideal strongly magnetized plasmas of neutron stars and their
  electromagnetic radiation

  We study the equation of state, polarization and radiation properties for
nonideal, strongly magnetized plasmas which compose outer envelopes of magnetic
neutron stars. Detailed calculations are performed for partially ionized
hydrogen atmospheres and for condensed hydrogen or iron surfaces of these
stars. This is a companion paper to astro-ph/0511803


Generalized gradient approximations to density functional theory:
  comparison with exact results

  In order to assess the accuracy of commonly used approximate
exchange-correlation density functionals, we present a comparison of accurate
exchange and correlation potentials, exchange energy densities and energy
components with the corresponding approximate quantities. Four systems are used
as illustrative examples: the model system of two electrons in a harmonic
potential and the He, Be and Ne atoms. A new ingredient in the paper is the
separation of the exchange-correlation potential into exchange and correlation
according to the density functional theory definition.


Monte Carlo Eigenvalue Methods in Quantum Mechanics and Statistical
  Mechanics

  In this review we discuss, from a unified point of view, a variety of Monte
Carlo methods used to solve eigenvalue problems in statistical mechanics and
quantum mechanics. Although the applications of these methods differ widely,
the underlying mathematics is quite similar in that they are stochastic
implementations of the power method. In all cases, optimized trial states can
be used to reduce the errors of Monte Carlo estimates.


The Proposed CLEO-c Program and R Measurement Prospects

  The proposed experimental program (CLEO-c) for a charm factory based on a
modification of the Cornell Electron Storage Ring is summarized. The prospects
for R measurements over the range 3 GeV to 7 GeV are examined in detail.
Adapted from "CLEO-c and CESR-c: A New Frontier of Weak and Strong
Interactions", the CLEO-c project description, by the CLEO Collaboration.


TeV-scale electron Compton scattering in the Randall-Sundrum scenario

  The spin-2 graviton excitations in the Randall-Sundrum gravity model provides
a t-channel contribution to electron Compton scattering which competes
favourably with the standard QED contributions. The phenomenological
implications of these contributions to the unpolarized and polarized
cross-sections are evaluated.


Weak Scale Quantum Gravity Effects for $γγ\to ZZ$ in the TeV
  region

  We consider the effect of massive spin-2 gravitons that occur as Kaluza-Klein
excitations of the graviton in a Weak scale Quantum Gravity scenario on the
process $\gamma \gamma \to ZZ$, which in the Standard Model can proceed through
loop diagrams. For a wide range of parameters, we show that the massive
gravitons leave behind signatures that should be verifiable in a TeV scale
scattering experiment.


Short and long distance contributions to $B \to K^* γγ$

  We study the decay of the neutral B meson to $K^* \gamma \gamma$ within the
framework of the Standard Model, including long distance contributions.


Signatures of quantized TeV scale Black holes in scattering processes

  In this paper we shall study the phenomenology of a doubly charged and
neutral exchange black hole in an $(n+3)$ extra-dimensional scenario, where the
black hole shall be treated a normal quantum field.


External Operators and Anomalous Dimensions in Soft-Collinear Effective
  Theory

  It has recently been argued that soft-collinear effective theory for
processes involving both soft and collinear partons contains a new
soft-collinear mode, which can communicate between the soft and collinear
sectors of the theory. The formalism incorporating the corresponding fields
into the effective Lagrangian is extended to include external current and
four-quark operators relevant to weak interactions. An explicit calculation of
the anomalous dimensions of these operators reveals that soft-collinear modes
are needed for correctly describing the ultraviolet behavior of the effective
theory.


FB asymmetries in the $B \to K^* \ell^+ \ell^-$ decay: A model
  independent approach

  Among the various "rare" semi-leptonic decays of $B$-mesons the $B \to K^*
\ell^+ \ell^-$ mode is of special interest. This is because it has the highest
branching ratio among all the semi-leptonic B decays within the SM. This
channel also provides us with a very large number of possible observables, such
as the Forward Backward (FB) asymmetry, lepton polarization asymmetry etc. Of
special interest is the zero which the FB asymmetry has in this decay mode. In
this work we have studied this zero in the most general model independent
framework.


CP violation in the $B \to K \ell^+ \ell^-$ decay

  Standard Model (SM) CP asymmetries in $B \to K \ell^+ \ell^-$ are expected to
be very small. This feature could help in the understanding of new physics
scenarios which predict the existence of CP odd phases in various Wilson
coefficients. In this paper we have analyzed the $B \to K \ell^+ \ell^-$ decay
in beyond the SM scenarios where the Wilson coefficients have new CP odd
phases. The sensitivity of the CP asymmetries on these new weak phases is
discussed.


Forest diagrams for elements of Thompson's group F

  We introduce forest diagrams to represent elements of Thompson's group F.
These diagrams relate to a certain action of F on the real line in the same way
that tree diagrams relate to the standard action of F on the unit interval.
Using forest diagrams, we give a conceptually simple length formula for
elements of F with respect to the {x_0,x_1} generating set, and we discuss the
construction of minimum-length words for positive elements. Finally, we use
forest diagrams and the length formula to examine the structure of the Cayley
graph of F.


Random walk loop soup

  The Brownian loop soup introduced in Lawler and Werner (2004) is a Poissonian
realization from a sigma-finite measure on unrooted loops. This measure
satisfies both conformal invariance and a restriction property. In this paper,
we define a random walk loop soup and show that it converges to the Brownian
loop soup. In fact, we give a strong approximation result making use of the
strong approximation result of Koml\'os, Major, and Tusn\'ady. To make the
paper self-contained, we include a proof of the approximation result that we
need.


Unramified reductors of filtered and graded algebras

  It is a fairly known fact that most of the algebras appearing in the theory
of rings of differential operators, quantized algebras of different kinds
(including many quantum groups), regular algebras in projective non-commutative
geometry, etc... come equipped with a natural gradation or filtration
controlled by some finite dimensional vector space(s), e.g. the degree one part
of filtration or gradation. In this note we relate the valuations of the
algebras considered to unramified sub-lattices in some vector space(s).


$V_{(1,1)}^{(t)}$-PERTURBED MODELS OF CFT AND THEIR QUANTUM GROUP
  SYMMETRY

  We propose a new massive integrable model in quantum field theory. This model
is obtained as a perturbed model of the minimal conformal field theories on the
hyper-elliptic surfaces by a particular relavant operator $V_{(1,1)}^{(t)}$.
The non-local conserved charges of the model and their $q$-deformed algebra are
also constructed explicitly.


Integrable Models on Hyper-Elliptic Surfaces

  We present an elementary introduction to the construction of integrable
models on hyper-elliptic surfaces for non specialists; also, we present some of
the details of the paper `solv-int/9504002' for the more interested readers.
(Based on a talk given at the MRST 95 meeting by C. E.)


Cornell Potential Parameters for S-wave Heavy Quarkonia

  We compute derived quantities for various values of the model parameter of
the Cornell potential model for the S-wave heavy quarkonia with radial quantum
numbers n=1, 2, and 3. Our results can be used to determine leading and
relative-order-v^2 nonrelativistic quantum chromodynamics matrix elements for
S-wave charmonia and bottomonia such as psi(2S), eta_c(2S), and Upsilon(nS) for
n=1, 2, and 3. These matrix elements will be essential ingredients for
resumming relativistic corrections to processes involving those S-wave heavy
quarkonium states.


Extreme Astrophysics with Neutron Stars

  We highlight recent theoretical and observational progress in several areas
of neutron star astrophysics, and discuss the prospect for advances in the next
decade.


Improved variational approach for the Cornell potential

  The approximate radial wave functions for the Cornell potential describing
quark-antiquark interaction are constructed in the framework of a variational
method. The optimal values of the variational parameters are fixed by the
fulfillment of the requirements of the virial theorem and the minimality
condition for integral discrepancy. The results of calculation with the simple
trial function are in a good agreement with exact numerical results.


Analysis of the ${\bar B} \to {\bar K}_2(1430) \ell^+ \ell^-$ decay

  We present an analysis of the decay process ${\bar B} \to {\bar K}_2(1430)
\ell^+ \ell^-$, where this process has all the features of the related and well
investigated process ${\bar B} \to {\bar K}^*(890) \ell^+ \ell^-$, with
theoretically comparable branching ratios. The differential decay rate as well
as the forward-backward asymmetry are worked out, where the sensitivity of
these to possible right-handed couplings for the related $b \to s$ radiative
decay are also investigated.


Role of interactions in time-of-flight expansion of atomic clouds from
  optical lattices

  We calculate the effect of interactions on the expansion of ultracold atoms
from a single site of an optical lattice. We use these results to predict how
interactions influence the interference pattern observed in a time of flight
experiment. We find that for typical interaction strengths their influence is
negligible, yet that they reduce visibility near a scattering resonance.


Fermion Quasi-normal modes of the Kerr Black-Hole

  In this paper we study the fermion quasi-normal modes of a 4-dimensional
rotating black-hole using the WKB(J) (to third and sixth order) and the AIM
semi-analytic methods in the massless Dirac fermion sector. These semi-analytic
approximations are computed in a pedagogical manner with comparisons made to
the numerical values of the quasi-normal mode frequencies presented in the
literature. It was found that The WKB(J) method and AIM show good agreement
with direct numerical solutions for low values of the overtone number $n$ and
angular quantum number l.


