First Passage Time of Skew Brownian Motion

  Nearly fifty years after the introduction of skew Brownian motion by It\^o
and McKean (1963), the first passage time distribution remains unknown. In this
paper, we generalize results of Pitman and Yor (2001) and Cs\'aki and Hu (2004)
to derive formulae for the distribution of ranked excursion heights of skew
Brownian motion. We then derive the first passage time distribution as a simple
corollary.


Learning in Integer Latent Variable Models with Nested Automatic
  Differentiation

  We develop nested automatic differentiation (AD) algorithms for exact
inference and learning in integer latent variable models. Recently, Winner,
Sujono, and Sheldon showed how to reduce marginalization in a class of integer
latent variable models to evaluating a probability generating function which
contains many levels of nested high-order derivatives. We contribute faster and
more stable AD algorithms for this challenging problem and a novel algorithm to
compute exact gradients for learning. These contributions lead to significantly
faster and more accurate learning algorithms, and are the first AD algorithms
whose running time is polynomial in the number of levels of nesting.


Comment on: Maximal violation of Bell inequalities by position
  measurements

  In an article published in 2010, Kiukas and Werner claim to have shown that
Bohmian Mechanics does not make the same empirical predictions as ordinary
Quantum Mechanics. We explain that such claim is wrong.


Maximizing the Spread of Cascades Using Network Design

  We introduce a new optimization framework to maximize the expected spread of
cascades in networks. Our model allows a rich set of actions that directly
manipulate cascade dynamics by adding nodes or edges to the network. Our
motivating application is one in spatial conservation planning, where a cascade
models the dispersal of wild animals through a fragmented landscape. We propose
a mixed integer programming (MIP) formulation that combines elements from
network design and stochastic optimization. Our approach results in solutions
with stochastic optimality guarantees and points to conservation strategies
that are fundamentally different from naive approaches.


What Does the Free Will Theorem Actually Prove?

  Conway and Kochen have presented a "free will theorem" (Notices of the AMS
56, pgs. 226-232 (2009)) which they claim shows that "if indeed we humans have
free will, then [so do] elementary particles." In a more precise fashion, they
claim it shows that for certain quantum experiments in which the experimenters
can choose between several options, no deterministic or stochastic model can
account for the observed outcomes without violating a condition "MIN" motivated
by relativistic symmetry. We point out that for stochastic models this
conclusion is not correct, while for deterministic models it is not new.


Importance Weighting and Variational Inference

  Recent work used importance sampling ideas for better variational bounds on
likelihoods. We clarify the applicability of these ideas to pure probabilistic
inference, by showing the resulting Importance Weighted Variational Inference
(IWVI) technique is an instance of augmented variational inference, thus
identifying the looseness in previous work. Experiments confirm IWVI's
practicality for probabilistic inference. As a second contribution, we
investigate inference with elliptical distributions, which improves accuracy in
low dimensions, and convergence in high dimensions.


Differentially Private Bayesian Inference for Exponential Families

  The study of private inference has been sparked by growing concern regarding
the analysis of data when it stems from sensitive sources. We present the first
method for private Bayesian inference in exponential families that properly
accounts for noise introduced by the privacy mechanism. It is efficient because
it works only with sufficient statistics and not individual data. Unlike other
methods, it gives properly calibrated posterior beliefs in the non-asymptotic
data regime.


Graphical-model based estimation and inference for differential privacy

  Many privacy mechanisms reveal high-level information about a data
distribution through noisy measurements. It is common to use this information
to estimate the answers to new queries. In this work, we provide an approach to
solve this estimation problem efficiently using graphical models, which is
particularly effective when the distribution is high-dimensional but the
measurements are over low-dimensional marginals. We show that our approach is
far more efficient than existing estimation techniques from the privacy
literature and that it can improve the accuracy and scalability of many
state-of-the-art mechanisms.


Gaussian Approximation of Collective Graphical Models

  The Collective Graphical Model (CGM) models a population of independent and
identically distributed individuals when only collective statistics (i.e.,
counts of individuals) are observed. Exact inference in CGMs is intractable,
and previous work has explored Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) and MAP
approximations for learning and inference. This paper studies Gaussian
approximations to the CGM. As the population grows large, we show that the CGM
distribution converges to a multivariate Gaussian distribution (GCGM) that
maintains the conditional independence properties of the original CGM. If the
observations are exact marginals of the CGM or marginals that are corrupted by
Gaussian noise, inference in the GCGM approximation can be computed efficiently
in closed form. If the observations follow a different noise model (e.g.,
Poisson), then expectation propagation provides efficient and accurate
approximate inference. The accuracy and speed of GCGM inference is compared to
the MCMC and MAP methods on a simulated bird migration problem. The GCGM
matches or exceeds the accuracy of the MAP method while being significantly
faster.


Matter Density and Relativistic Models of Wave Function Collapse

  Mathematical models for the stochastic evolution of wave functions that
combine the unitary evolution according to the Schroedinger equation and the
collapse postulate of quantum theory are well understood for non-relativistic
quantum mechanics. Recently, there has been progress in making these models
relativistic. But even with a fully relativistic law for the wave function
evolution, a problem with relativity remains: Different Lorentz frames may
yield conflicting values for the matter density at a space-time point. We
propose here a relativistic law for the matter density function. According to
our proposal, the matter density function at a space-time point x is obtained
from the wave function psi on the past light cone of x by setting the i-th
particle position in |psi|^2 equal to x, integrating over the other particle
positions, and averaging over i. We show that the predictions that follow from
this proposal agree with all known experimental facts.


Bethe Projections for Non-Local Inference

  Many inference problems in structured prediction are naturally solved by
augmenting a tractable dependency structure with complex, non-local auxiliary
objectives. This includes the mean field family of variational inference
algorithms, soft- or hard-constrained inference using Lagrangian relaxation or
linear programming, collective graphical models, and forms of semi-supervised
learning such as posterior regularization. We present a method to
discriminatively learn broad families of inference objectives, capturing
powerful non-local statistics of the latent variables, while maintaining
tractable and provably fast inference using non-Euclidean projected gradient
descent with a distance-generating function given by the Bethe entropy. We
demonstrate the performance and flexibility of our method by (1) extracting
structured citations from research papers by learning soft global constraints,
(2) achieving state-of-the-art results on a widely-used handwriting recognition
task using a novel learned non-convex inference procedure, and (3) providing a
fast and highly scalable algorithm for the challenging problem of inference in
a collective graphical model applied to bird migration.


Collective Diffusion Over Networks: Models and Inference

  Diffusion processes in networks are increasingly used to model the spread of
information and social influence. In several applications in computational
sustainability such as the spread of wildlife, infectious diseases and traffic
mobility pattern, the observed data often consists of only aggregate
information. In this work, we present new models that generalize standard
diffusion processes to such collective settings. We also present optimization
based techniques that can accurately learn the underlying dynamics of the given
contagion process, including the hidden network structure, by only observing
the time a node becomes active and the associated aggregate information.
Empirically, our technique is highly robust and accurately learns network
structure with more than 90% recall and precision. Results on real-world flu
spread data in the US confirm that our technique can also accurately model
infectious disease spread.


Consistently Estimating Markov Chains with Noisy Aggregate Data

  We address the problem of estimating the parameters of a time-homogeneous
Markov chain given only noisy, aggregate data. This arises when a population of
individuals behave independently according to a Markov chain, but individual
sample paths cannot be observed due to limitations of the observation process
or the need to protect privacy. Instead, only population-level counts of the
number of individuals in each state at each time step are available. When these
counts are exact, a conditional least squares (CLS) estimator is known to be
consistent and asymptotically normal. We initiate the study of method of
moments estimators for this problem to handle the more realistic case when
observations are additionally corrupted by noise. We show that CLS can be
interpreted as a simple "plug-in" method of moments estimator. However, when
observations are noisy, it is not consistent because it fails to account for
additional variance introduced by the noise. We develop a new, simpler method
of moments estimator that bypasses this problem and is consistent under noisy
observations.


Robust Optimization for Tree-Structured Stochastic Network Design

  Stochastic network design is a general framework for optimizing network
connectivity. It has several applications in computational sustainability
including spatial conservation planning, pre-disaster network preparation, and
river network optimization. A common assumption in previous work has been made
that network parameters (e.g., probability of species colonization) are
precisely known, which is unrealistic in real- world settings. We therefore
address the robust river network design problem where the goal is to optimize
river connectivity for fish movement by removing barriers. We assume that fish
passability probabilities are known only imprecisely, but are within some
interval bounds. We then develop a planning approach that computes the policies
with either high robust ratio or low regret. Empirically, our approach scales
well to large river networks. We also provide insights into the solutions
generated by our robust approach, which has significantly higher robust ratio
than the baseline solution with mean parameter estimates.


Differentially Private Learning of Undirected Graphical Models using
  Collective Graphical Models

  We investigate the problem of learning discrete, undirected graphical models
in a differentially private way. We show that the approach of releasing noisy
sufficient statistics using the Laplace mechanism achieves a good trade-off
between privacy, utility, and practicality. A naive learning algorithm that
uses the noisy sufficient statistics "as is" outperforms general-purpose
differentially private learning algorithms. However, it has three limitations:
it ignores knowledge about the data generating process, rests on uncertain
theoretical foundations, and exhibits certain pathologies. We develop a more
principled approach that applies the formalism of collective graphical models
to perform inference over the true sufficient statistics within an
expectation-maximization framework. We show that this learns better models than
competing approaches on both synthetic data and on real human mobility data
used as a case study.


Hamming Approximation of NP Witnesses

  Given a satisfiable 3-SAT formula, how hard is it to find an assignment to
the variables that has Hamming distance at most n/2 to a satisfying assignment?
More generally, consider any polynomial-time verifier for any NP-complete
language. A d(n)-Hamming-approximation algorithm for the verifier is one that,
given any member x of the language, outputs in polynomial time a string a with
Hamming distance at most d(n) to some witness w, where (x,w) is accepted by the
verifier. Previous results have shown that, if P != NP, then every NP-complete
language has a verifier for which there is no
(n/2-n^(2/3+d))-Hamming-approximation algorithm, for various constants d > 0.
  Our main result is that, if P != NP, then every paddable NP-complete language
has a verifier that admits no (n/2+O(sqrt(n log n)))-Hamming-approximation
algorithm. That is, one cannot get even half the bits right. We also consider
natural verifiers for various well-known NP-complete problems. They do have
n/2-Hamming-approximation algorithms, but, if P != NP, have no
(n/2-n^epsilon)-Hamming-approximation algorithms for any constant epsilon > 0.
  We show similar results for randomized algorithms.


SDSS J0903+5028: A New Gravitational Lens

  We report the discovery of a new gravitationally lensed quasar from the Sloan
Digital Sky Survey, SDSS J090334.92+502819.2. This object was targeted for SDSS
spectroscopy as a Luminous Red Galaxy (LRG), but manual examination of the
spectrum showed the presence of a quasar at z= 3.6 in addition to a red galaxy
at z=0.388, and the SDSS image showed a second possible quasar image nearby.
Follow-up imaging and spectroscopy confirmed the lensing hypothesis. In images
taken at the ARC 3.5-meter telescope, two quasars are separated by 2.8
arc-seconds; the lensing galaxy is clearly seen and is blended with one of the
quasar images. Spectroscopy taken at the Keck II telescope shows that the
quasars have identical redshifts of z=3.6 and both show the presence of the
same broad absorption line-like troughs. We present simple lens models which
account for the geometry and magnifications. The lens galaxy lies near two
groups of galaxies and may be a part of them. The models suggest that the
groups may contribute considerable shear and may have a strong effect on the
lens configuration.


The Sloan Digital Sky Survey Quasar Lens Search. III. Constraints on
  Dark Energy from the Third Data Release Quasar Lens Catalog

  We present cosmological results from the statistics of lensed quasars in the
Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Quasar Lens Search. By taking proper account of
the selection function, we compute the expected number of quasars lensed by
early-type galaxies and their image separation distribution assuming a flat
universe, which is then compared with 7 lenses found in the SDSS Data Release 3
to derive constraints on dark energy under strictly controlled criteria. For a
cosmological constant model (w=-1) we obtain
\Omega_\Lambda=0.74^{+0.11}_{-0.15}(stat.)^{+0.13}_{-0.06}(syst.). Allowing w
to be a free parameter we find
\Omega_M=0.26^{+0.07}_{-0.06}(stat.)^{+0.03}_{-0.05}(syst.) and
w=-1.1\pm0.6(stat.)^{+0.3}_{-0.5}(syst.) when combined with the constraint from
the measurement of baryon acoustic oscillations in the SDSS luminous red galaxy
sample. Our results are in good agreement with earlier lensing constraints
obtained using radio lenses, and provide additional confirmation of the
presence of dark energy consistent with a cosmological constant, derived
independently of type Ia supernovae.


Detection of Lyβauto-correlations and Lyα-Lyβ
  cross-correlations in BOSS Data Release 9

  The Lyman-$\beta$ forest refers to a region in the spectra of distant quasars
that lies between the rest-frame Lyman-$\beta$ and Lyman-$\gamma$ emissions.
The forest in this region is dominated by a combination of absorption due to
resonant Ly$\alpha$ and Ly$\beta$ scattering. When considering the 1D Ly$\beta$
forest in addition to the 1D Ly$\alpha$ forest, the full statistical
description of the data requires four 1D power spectra: Ly$\alpha$ and
Ly$\beta$ auto-power spectra and the Ly$\alpha$-Ly$\beta$ real and imaginary
cross-power spectra. We describe how these can be measured using an optimal
quadratic estimator that naturally disentangles Ly$\alpha$ and Ly$\beta$
contributions. Using a sample of approximately 60,000 quasar sight-lines from
the BOSS Data Release 9, we make the measurement of the one-dimensional power
spectrum of fluctuations due to the Ly$\beta$ resonant scattering. While we
have not corrected our measurements for resolution damping of the power and
other systematic effects carefully enough to use them for cosmological
constraints, we can robustly conclude the following: i) Ly$\beta$ power
spectrum and Ly$\alpha$-Ly$\beta$ cross spectra are detected with high
statistical significance; ii) the cross-correlation coefficient is $\approx 1$
on large scales; iii) the Ly$\beta$ measurements are contaminated by the
associated OVI absorption, which is analogous to the SiIII contamination of the
Ly$\alpha$ forest. Measurements of the Ly$\beta$ forest will allow extension of
the usable path-length for the Ly$\alpha$ measurements while allowing a better
understanding of the physics of intergalactic medium and thus more robust
cosmological constraints.


Lithium Metal Penetration Induced by Electrodeposition through Solid
  Electrolytes: Example in Single-Crystal Li6La3ZrTaO12 Garnet

  Solid electrolytes are considered a potentially enabling component in
rechargeable batteries that use lithium metal as the negative electrode, and
thereby can safely access higher energy density than available with today's
lithium ion batteries. To do so, the solid electrolyte must be able to suppress
morphological instabilities that lead to poor coulombic efficiency and, in the
worst case, internal short circuits. In this work, lithium electrodeposition
experiments were performed using single-crystal Li6La3ZrTaO12 garnet as solid
electrolyte layers to investigate the factors that determine whether lithium
penetration occurs through brittle inorganic solid electrolytes. In these
single crystals, grain boundaries are excluded as possible paths for lithium
metal propagation. However, Vickers microindentation was used to introduce
sharp surface flaws of known size. Using operando optical microscopy, it was
found that lithium metal penetration sometimes initiates at these controlled
surface defects, and when multiple indents of varying size were present,
propagates preferentially from the largest defect. However, a second class of
flaws was found to be equally or more important. At the perimeter of surface
current collectors, an enhanced electrodeposition current density causes
lithium metal filled cracks to initiate and grow to penetration, even when the
large Vickers defects are in close proximity. Modeling the electric field
concentration for the experimental configurations, it was shown that a factor
of 5 enhancement in field can readily occur within 10 micrometers of current
collector discontinuities, which we interpret as the origin of
electrochemomechanical stresses leading to failure. Such field amplification
may determine the sites where supercritical surface defects dominate lithium
metal propagation during electrodeposition, overriding the presence of larger
defects elsewhere.


Baryon Acoustic Oscillations in the Ly-α forest of BOSS quasars

  We report a detection of the baryon acoustic oscillation (BAO) feature in the
three-dimensional correlation function of the transmitted flux fraction in the
\Lya forest of high-redshift quasars. The study uses 48,640 quasars in the
redshift range $2.1\le z \le 3.5$ from the Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic
Survey (BOSS) of the third generation of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey
(SDSS-III). At a mean redshift $z=2.3$, we measure the monopole and quadrupole
components of the correlation function for separations in the range
$20\hMpc<r<200\hMpc$. A peak in the correlation function is seen at a
separation equal to $(1.01\pm0.03)$ times the distance expected for the BAO
peak within a concordance $\Lambda$CDM cosmology. This first detection of the
BAO peak at high redshift, when the universe was strongly matter dominated,
results in constraints on the angular diameter distance $\da$ and the expansion
rate $H$ at $z=2.3$ that, combined with priors on $H_0$ and the baryon density,
require the existence of dark energy. Combined with constraints derived from
Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) observations, this result implies
$H(z=2.3)=(224\pm8){\rm km\,s^{-1}Mpc^{-1}}$, indicating that the time
derivative of the cosmological scale parameter $\dot{a}=H(z=2.3)/(1+z)$ is
significantly greater than that measured with BAO at $z\sim0.5$. This
demonstrates that the expansion was decelerating in the range $0.7<z<2.3$, as
expected from the matter domination during this epoch. Combined with
measurements of $H_0$, one sees the pattern of deceleration followed by
acceleration characteristic of a dark-energy dominated universe.


The clustering of galaxies in the SDSS-III Baryon Oscillation
  Spectroscopic Survey: measurements of the growth of structure and expansion
  rate at z=0.57 from anisotropic clustering

  We analyze the anisotropic clustering of massive galaxies from the Sloan
Digital Sky Survey III Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS) Data
Release 9 (DR9) sample, which consists of 264,283 galaxies in the redshift
range 0.43 < z < 0.7 spanning 3,275 square degrees. Both peculiar velocities
and errors in the assumed redshift-distance relation ("Alcock-Paczynski
effect") generate correlations between clustering amplitude and orientation
with respect to the line-of-sight. Together with the sharp baryon acoustic
oscillation (BAO) standard ruler, our measurements of the broadband shape of
the monopole and quadrupole correlation functions simultaneously constrain the
comoving angular diameter distance (2190 +/- 61 Mpc) to z=0.57, the Hubble
expansion rate at z=0.57 (92.4 +/- 4.5 km/s/Mpc), and the growth rate of
structure at that same redshift (d sigma8/d ln a = 0.43 +/- 0.069). Our
analysis provides the best current direct determination of both DA and H in
galaxy clustering data using this technique. If we further assume a LCDM
expansion history, our growth constraint tightens to d sigma8/d ln a = 0.415
+/- 0.034. In combination with the cosmic microwave background, our
measurements of DA, H, and growth all separately require dark energy at z >
0.57, and when combined imply \Omega_{\Lambda} = 0.74 +/- 0.016, independent of
the Universe's evolution at z<0.57. In our companion paper (Samushia et al.
prep), we explore further cosmological implications of these observations.


The Clustering of Galaxies in SDSS-III DR9 Baryon Oscillation
  Spectroscopic Survey: Constraints on Primordial Non-Gaussianity

  We analyze the density field of 264,283 galaxies observed by the Sloan
Digital Sky Survey (SDSS)-III Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS)
and included in the SDSS data release nine (DR9). In total, the SDSS DR9 BOSS
data includes spectroscopic redshifts for over 400,000 galaxies spread over a
footprint of more than 3,000 deg^2. We measure the power spectrum of these
galaxies with redshifts 0.43 < z < 0.7 in order to constrain the amount of
local non-Gaussianity, f_NL,local, in the primordial density field, paying
particular attention to the impact of systematic uncertainties. The BOSS galaxy
density field is systematically affected by the local stellar density and this
influences the ability to accurately measure f_NL,local. In the absence of any
correction, we find (erroneously) that the probability that f_NL,local is
greater than zero, P(f_NL,local >0), is 99.5%. After quantifying and correcting
for the systematic bias and including the added uncertainty, we find -45 <
f_NL,local < 195 at 95% confidence, and P(f_NL,local >0) = 91.0%. A more
conservative approach assumes that we have only learned the k-dependence of the
systematic bias and allows any amplitude for the systematic correction; we find
that the systematic effect is not fully degenerate with that of f_NL,local, and
we determine that -82 < f_NL,local < 178 (at 95% confidence) and P(f_NL,local
>0) = 68%. This analysis demonstrates the importance of accounting for the
impact of Galactic foregrounds on f_NL,local measurements. We outline the
methods that account for these systematic biases and uncertainties. We expect
our methods to yield robust constraints on f_NL,local for both our own and
future large-scale-structure investigations.


SDSS-III Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey Data Release 12: galaxy
  target selection and large scale structure catalogues

  The Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS), part of the Sloan Digital
Sky Survey (SDSS) III project, has provided the largest survey of galaxy
redshifts available to date, in terms of both the number of galaxy redshifts
measured by a single survey, and the effective cosmological volume covered. Key
to analysing the clustering of these data to provide cosmological measurements
is understanding the detailed properties of this sample. Potential issues
include variations in the target catalogue caused by changes either in the
targeting algorithm or properties of the data used, the pattern of
spectroscopic observations, the spatial distribution of targets for which
redshifts were not obtained, and variations in the target sky density due to
observational systematics. We document here the target selection algorithms
used to create the galaxy samples that comprise BOSS. We also present the
algorithms used to create large scale structure catalogues for the final Data
Release (DR12) samples and the associated random catalogues that quantify the
survey mask. The algorithms are an evolution of those used by the BOSS team to
construct catalogues from earlier data, and have been designed to accurately
quantify the galaxy sample. The code used, designated MKSAMPLE, is released
with this paper.


Cosmology from large scale galaxy clustering and galaxy-galaxy lensing
  with Dark Energy Survey Science Verification data

  We present cosmological constraints from the Dark Energy Survey (DES) using a
combined analysis of angular clustering of red galaxies and their
cross-correlation with weak gravitational lensing of background galaxies. We
use a 139 square degree contiguous patch of DES data from the Science
Verification (SV) period of observations. Using large scale measurements, we
constrain the matter density of the Universe as Omega_m = 0.31 +/- 0.09 and the
clustering amplitude of the matter power spectrum as sigma_8 = 0.74 +/- 0.13
after marginalizing over seven nuisance parameters and three additional
cosmological parameters. This translates into S_8 = sigma_8(Omega_m/0.3)^{0.16}
= 0.74 +/- 0.12 for our fiducial lens redshift bin at 0.35 <z< 0.5, while S_8 =
0.78 +/- 0.09 using two bins over the range 0.2 <z< 0.5. We study the
robustness of the results under changes in the data vectors, modelling and
systematics treatment, including photometric redshift and shear calibration
uncertainties, and find consistency in the derived cosmological parameters. We
show that our results are consistent with previous cosmological analyses from
DES and other data sets and conclude with a joint analysis of DES angular
clustering and galaxy-galaxy lensing with Planck CMB data, Baryon Accoustic
Oscillations and Supernova type Ia measurements.


The Sloan Digital Sky Survey Quasar Lens Search. II. Statistical Lens
  Sample from the Third Data Release

  We report the first results of our systematic search for strongly lensed
quasars using the spectroscopically confirmed quasars in the Sloan Digital Sky
Survey (SDSS). Among 46,420 quasars from the SDSS Data Release 3 (~4188 deg^2),
we select a subsample of 22,683 quasars that are located at redshifts between
0.6 and 2.2 and are brighter than the Galactic extinction corrected i-band
magnitude of 19.1. We identify 220 lens candidates from the quasar subsample,
for which we conduct extensive and systematic follow-up observations in optical
and near-infrared wavebands, in order to construct a complete lensed quasar
sample at image separations between 1'' and 20'' and flux ratios of faint to
bright lensed images larger than 10^{-0.5}. We construct a statistical sample
of 11 lensed quasars. Ten of these are galaxy-scale lenses with small image
separations (~1''-2'') and one is a large separation (15'') system which is
produced by a massive cluster of galaxies, representing the first statistical
sample of lensed quasars including both galaxy- and cluster-scale lenses. The
Data Release 3 spectroscopic quasars contain an additional 11 lensed quasars
outside the statistical sample.


The Lyman-alpha forest in three dimensions: measurements of large scale
  flux correlations from BOSS 1st-year data

  Using a sample of approximately 14,000 z>2.1 quasars observed in the first
year of the Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS), we measure the
three-dimensional correlation function of absorption in the Lyman-alpha forest.
The angle-averaged correlation function of transmitted flux (F = exp(-tau)) is
securely detected out to comoving separations of 60 Mpc/h, the first detection
of flux correlations across widely separated sightlines. A quadrupole
distortion of the redshift-space correlation function by peculiar velocities,
the signature of the gravitational instability origin of structure in the
Lyman-alpha forest, is also detected at high significance. We obtain a good fit
to the data assuming linear theory redshift-space distortion and linear bias of
the transmitted flux, relative to the matter fluctuations of a standard LCDM
cosmological model (inflationary cold dark matter with a cosmological
constant). At 95% confidence, we find a linear bias parameter 0.16<b<0.24 and
redshift-distortion parameter 0.44<beta<1.20, at central redshift z=2.25, with
a well constrained combination b(1+\beta)=0.336 +/- 0.012. The errors on beta
are asymmetric, with beta=0 excluded at over 5 sigma confidence level. The
value of beta is somewhat low compared to theoretical predictions, and our
tests on synthetic data suggest that it is depressed (relative to expectations
for the Lyman-alpha forest alone) by the presence of high column density
systems and metal line absorption. These results set the stage for cosmological
parameter determinations from three-dimensional structure in the Lyman-alpha
forest, including anticipated constraints on dark energy from baryon acoustic
oscillations.


The SDSS-III Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey: Quasar Target
  Selection for Data Release Nine

  The SDSS-III Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS), a five-year
spectroscopic survey of 10,000 deg^2, achieved first light in late 2009. One of
the key goals of BOSS is to measure the signature of baryon acoustic
oscillations in the distribution of Ly-alpha absorption from the spectra of a
sample of ~150,000 z>2.2 quasars. Along with measuring the angular diameter
distance at z\approx2.5, BOSS will provide the first direct measurement of the
expansion rate of the Universe at z > 2. One of the biggest challenges in
achieving this goal is an efficient target selection algorithm for quasars over
2.2 < z < 3.5, where their colors overlap those of stars. During the first year
of the BOSS survey, quasar target selection methods were developed and tested
to meet the requirement of delivering at least 15 quasars deg^-2 in this
redshift range, out of 40 targets deg^-2. To achieve these surface densities,
the magnitude limit of the quasar targets was set at g <= 22.0 or r<=21.85.
While detection of the BAO signature in the Ly-alpha absorption in quasar
spectra does not require a uniform target selection, many other astrophysical
studies do. We therefore defined a uniformly-selected subsample of 20 targets
deg^-2, for which the selection efficiency is just over 50%. This "CORE"
subsample will be fixed for Years Two through Five of the survey. In this paper
we describe the evolution and implementation of the BOSS quasar target
selection algorithms during the first two years of BOSS operations. We analyze
the spectra obtained during the first year. 11,263 new z>2.2 quasars were
spectroscopically confirmed by BOSS. Our current algorithms select an average
of 15 z > 2.2 quasars deg^-2 from 40 targets deg^-2 using single-epoch SDSS
imaging. Multi-epoch optical data and data at other wavelengths can further
improve the efficiency and completeness of BOSS quasar target selection.
[Abridged]


Measurement of Baryon Acoustic Oscillations in the Lyman-alpha Forest
  Fluctuations in BOSS Data Release 9

  We use the Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS) Data Release 9
(DR9) to detect and measure the position of the Baryonic Acoustic Oscillation
(BAO) feature in the three-dimensional correlation function in the Lyman-alpha
forest flux fluctuations at a redshift z=2.4. The feature is clearly detected
at significance between 3 and 5 sigma (depending on the broadband model and
method of error covariance matrix estimation) and is consistent with
predictions of the standard LCDM model. We assess the biases in our method,
stability of the error covariance matrix and possible systematic effects. We
fit the resulting correlation function with several models that decouple the
broadband and acoustic scale information. For an isotropic dilation factor, we
measure 100x(alpha_iso-1) = -1.6 ^{+2.0+4.3+7.4}_{-2.0-4.1-6.8} (stat.) +/- 1.0
(syst.) (multiple statistical errors denote 1,2 and 3 sigma confidence limits)
with respect to the acoustic scale in the fiducial cosmological model (flat
LCDM with Omega_m=0.27, h=0.7). When fitting separately for the radial and
transversal dilation factors we find marginalised constraints 100x(alpha_par-1)
= -1.3 ^{+3.5+7.6 +12.3}_{-3.3-6.7-10.2} (stat.) +/- 2.0 (syst.) and
100x(alpha_perp-1) = -2.2 ^{+7.4+17}_{-7.1-15} +/- 3.0 (syst.). The dilation
factor measurements are significantly correlated with cross-correlation
coefficient of ~ -0.55. Errors become significantly non-Gaussian for deviations
over 3 standard deviations from best fit value. Because of the data cuts and
analysis method, these measurements give tighter constraints than a previous
BAO analysis of the BOSS DR9 Lyman-alpha forest sample, providing an important
consistency test of the standard cosmological model in a new redshift regime.


Weak lensing by galaxy troughs in DES Science Verification data

  We measure the weak lensing shear around galaxy troughs, i.e. the radial
alignment of background galaxies relative to underdensities in projections of
the foreground galaxy field over a wide range of redshift in Science
Verification data from the Dark Energy Survey. Our detection of the shear
signal is highly significant (10 to 15$\sigma$ for the smallest angular scales)
for troughs with the redshift range z in [0.2,0.5] of the projected galaxy
field and angular diameters of 10 arcmin...1{\deg}. These measurements probe
the connection between the galaxy, matter density, and convergence fields. By
assuming galaxies are biased tracers of the matter density with Poissonian
noise, we find agreement of our measurements with predictions in a fiducial
Lambda cold dark matter model. The prediction for the lensing signal on large
trough scales is virtually independent of the details of the underlying model
for the connection of galaxies and matter. Our comparison of the shear around
troughs with that around cylinders with large galaxy counts is consistent with
a symmetry between galaxy and matter over- and underdensities. In addition, we
measure the two-point angular correlation of troughs with galaxies which, in
contrast to the lensing signal, is sensitive to galaxy bias on all scales. The
lensing signal of troughs and their clustering with galaxies is therefore a
promising probe of the statistical properties of matter underdensities and
their connection to the galaxy field.


Extreme variability quasars from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey and the
  Dark Energy Survey

  We perform a systematic search for long-term extreme variability quasars
(EVQs) in the overlapping Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) and 3-Year Dark
Energy Survey (DES) imaging, which provide light curves spanning more than 15
years. We identified ~1000 EVQs with a maximum g band magnitude change of more
than 1 mag over this period, about 10% of all quasars searched. The EVQs have
L_bol~10^45-10^47 erg/s and L/L_Edd~0.01-1. Accounting for selection effects,
we estimate an intrinsic EVQ fraction of ~30-50% among all g<~22 quasars over a
baseline of ~15 years. These EVQs are good candidates for so-called
"changing-look quasars", where a spectral transition between the two types of
quasars (broad-line and narrow-line) is observed between the dim and bright
states. We performed detailed multi-wavelength, spectral and variability
analyses for the EVQs and compared to their parent quasar sample. We found that
EVQs are distinct from a control sample of quasars matched in redshift and
optical luminosity: (1) their UV broad emission lines have larger equivalent
widths; (2) their Eddington ratios are systematically lower; and (3) they are
more variable on all timescales. The intrinsic difference in quasar properties
for EVQs suggest that internal processes associated with accretion are the main
driver for the observed extreme long-term variability. However, despite their
different properties, EVQs seem to be in the tail of a continuous distribution
of quasar properties, rather than standing out as a distinct population. We
speculate that EVQs are normal quasars accreting at relatively low accretion
rates, where the accretion flow is more likely to experience instabilities that
drive the factor of few changes in flux on multi-year timescales.


Cosmological implications of baryon acoustic oscillation (BAO)
  measurements

  We derive constraints on cosmological parameters and tests of dark energy
models from the combination of baryon acoustic oscillation (BAO) measurements
with cosmic microwave background (CMB) and Type Ia supernova (SN) data. We take
advantage of high-precision BAO measurements from galaxy clustering and the
Ly-alpha forest (LyaF) in the BOSS survey of SDSS-III. BAO data alone yield a
high confidence detection of dark energy, and in combination with the CMB
angular acoustic scale they further imply a nearly flat universe. Combining BAO
and SN data into an "inverse distance ladder" yields a 1.7% measurement of
$H_0=67.3 \pm1.1$ km/s/Mpc. This measurement assumes standard pre-recombination
physics but is insensitive to assumptions about dark energy or space curvature,
so agreement with CMB-based estimates that assume a flat LCDM cosmology is an
important corroboration of this minimal cosmological model. For open LCDM, our
BAO+SN+CMB combination yields $\Omega_m=0.301 \pm 0.008$ and curvature
$\Omega_k=-0.003 \pm 0.003$. When we allow more general forms of evolving dark
energy, the BAO+SN+CMB parameter constraints remain consistent with flat LCDM.
While the overall $\chi^2$ of model fits is satisfactory, the LyaF BAO
measurements are in moderate (2-2.5 sigma) tension with model predictions.
Models with early dark energy that tracks the dominant energy component at high
redshifts remain consistent with our constraints. Expansion history alone
yields an upper limit of 0.56 eV on the summed mass of neutrino species,
improving to 0.26 eV if we include Planck CMB lensing. Standard dark energy
models constrained by our data predict a level of matter clustering that is
high compared to most, but not all, observational estimates. (Abridged)


The Sloan Digital Sky Survey quasar catalog: ninth data release

  We present the Data Release 9 Quasar (DR9Q) catalog from the Baryon
Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS) of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey III.
The catalog includes all BOSS objects that were targeted as quasar candidates
during the survey, are spectrocopically confirmed as quasars via visual
inspection, have luminosities Mi[z=2]<-20.5 (in a $\Lambda$CDM cosmology with
H0 = 70 km/s/Mpc, $\Omega_{\rm M}$ = 0.3, and $\Omega_{\Lambda}$ = 0.7) and
either display at least one emission line with full width at half maximum
(FWHM) larger than 500 km/s or, if not, have interesting/complex absorption
features. It includes as well, known quasars (mostly from SDSS-I and II) that
were reobserved by BOSS. This catalog contains 87,822 quasars (78,086 are new
discoveries) detected over 3,275 deg$^{2}$ with robust identification and
redshift measured by a combination of principal component eigenspectra newly
derived from a training set of 8,632 spectra from SDSS-DR7. The number of
quasars with $z>2.15$ (61,931) is ~2.8 times larger than the number of z>2.15
quasars previously known. Redshifts and FWHMs are provided for the strongest
emission lines (CIV, CIII], MgII). The catalog identifies 7,533 broad
absorption line quasars and gives their characteristics. For each object the
catalog presents five-band (u,g,r,i,z) CCD-based photometry with typical
accuracy of 0.03 mag, and information on the morphology and selection method.
The catalog also contains X-ray, ultraviolet, near-infrared, and radio emission
properties of the quasars, when available, from other large-area surveys.


The clustering of galaxies in the SDSS-III Baryon Oscillation
  Spectroscopic Survey: Baryon Acoustic Oscillations in the Data Release 9
  Spectroscopic Galaxy Sample

  We present measurements of galaxy clustering from the Baryon Oscillation
Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS), which is part of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey III
(SDSS-III). These use the Data Release 9 (DR9) CMASS sample, which contains
264,283 massive galaxies covering 3275 square degrees with an effective
redshift z=0.57 and redshift range 0.43 < z < 0.7. Assuming a concordance
Lambda-CDM cosmological model, this sample covers an effective volume of 2.2
Gpc^3, and represents the largest sample of the Universe ever surveyed at this
density, n = 3 x 10^-4 h^-3 Mpc^3. We measure the angle-averaged galaxy
correlation function and power spectrum, including density-field reconstruction
of the baryon acoustic oscillation (BAO) feature. The acoustic features are
detected at a significance of 5\sigma in both the correlation function and
power spectrum. Combining with the SDSS-II Luminous Red Galaxy Sample, the
detection significance increases to 6.7\sigma. Fitting for the position of the
acoustic features measures the distance to z=0.57 relative to the sound horizon
DV /rs = 13.67 +/- 0.22 at z=0.57. Assuming a fiducial sound horizon of 153.19
Mpc, which matches cosmic microwave background constraints, this corresponds to
a distance DV(z=0.57) = 2094 +/- 34 Mpc. At 1.7 per cent, this is the most
precise distance constraint ever obtained from a galaxy survey. We place this
result alongside previous BAO measurements in a cosmological distance ladder
and find excellent agreement with the current supernova measurements. We use
these distance measurements to constrain various cosmological models, finding
continuing support for a flat Universe with a cosmological constant.


The Eighth Data Release of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey: First Data from
  SDSS-III

  The Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) started a new phase in August 2008, with
new instrumentation and new surveys focused on Galactic structure and chemical
evolution, measurements of the baryon oscillation feature in the clustering of
galaxies and the quasar Ly alpha forest, and a radial velocity search for
planets around ~8000 stars. This paper describes the first data release of
SDSS-III (and the eighth counting from the beginning of the SDSS). The release
includes five-band imaging of roughly 5200 deg^2 in the Southern Galactic Cap,
bringing the total footprint of the SDSS imaging to 14,555 deg^2, or over a
third of the Celestial Sphere. All the imaging data have been reprocessed with
an improved sky-subtraction algorithm and a final, self-consistent photometric
recalibration and flat-field determination. This release also includes all data
from the second phase of the Sloan Extension for Galactic Understanding and
Evolution (SEGUE-2), consisting of spectroscopy of approximately 118,000 stars
at both high and low Galactic latitudes. All the more than half a million
stellar spectra obtained with the SDSS spectrograph have been reprocessed
through an improved stellar parameters pipeline, which has better determination
of metallicity for high metallicity stars.


The Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey of SDSS-III

  The Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS) is designed to measure the
scale of baryon acoustic oscillations (BAO) in the clustering of matter over a
larger volume than the combined efforts of all previous spectroscopic surveys
of large scale structure. BOSS uses 1.5 million luminous galaxies as faint as
i=19.9 over 10,000 square degrees to measure BAO to redshifts z<0.7.
Observations of neutral hydrogen in the Lyman alpha forest in more than 150,000
quasar spectra (g<22) will constrain BAO over the redshift range 2.15<z<3.5.
Early results from BOSS include the first detection of the large-scale
three-dimensional clustering of the Lyman alpha forest and a strong detection
from the Data Release 9 data set of the BAO in the clustering of massive
galaxies at an effective redshift z = 0.57. We project that BOSS will yield
measurements of the angular diameter distance D_A to an accuracy of 1.0% at
redshifts z=0.3 and z=0.57 and measurements of H(z) to 1.8% and 1.7% at the
same redshifts. Forecasts for Lyman alpha forest constraints predict a
measurement of an overall dilation factor that scales the highly degenerate
D_A(z) and H^{-1}(z) parameters to an accuracy of 1.9% at z~2.5 when the survey
is complete. Here, we provide an overview of the selection of spectroscopic
targets, planning of observations, and analysis of data and data quality of
BOSS.


Dark Energy Survey Year 1 Results: Redshift distributions of the weak
  lensing source galaxies

  We describe the derivation and validation of redshift distribution estimates
and their uncertainties for the galaxies used as weak lensing sources in the
Dark Energy Survey (DES) Year 1 cosmological analyses. The Bayesian Photometric
Redshift (BPZ) code is used to assign galaxies to four redshift bins between
z=0.2 and 1.3, and to produce initial estimates of the lensing-weighted
redshift distributions $n^i_{PZ}(z)$ for bin i. Accurate determination of
cosmological parameters depends critically on knowledge of $n^i$ but is
insensitive to bin assignments or redshift errors for individual galaxies. The
cosmological analyses allow for shifts $n^i(z)=n^i_{PZ}(z-\Delta z^i)$ to
correct the mean redshift of $n^i(z)$ for biases in $n^i_{\rm PZ}$. The $\Delta
z^i$ are constrained by comparison of independently estimated 30-band
photometric redshifts of galaxies in the COSMOS field to BPZ estimates made
from the DES griz fluxes, for a sample matched in fluxes, pre-seeing size, and
lensing weight to the DES weak-lensing sources. In companion papers, the
$\Delta z^i$ are further constrained by the angular clustering of the source
galaxies around red galaxies with secure photometric redshifts at 0.15<z<0.9.
This paper details the BPZ and COSMOS procedures, and demonstrates that the
cosmological inference is insensitive to details of the $n^i(z)$ beyond the
choice of $\Delta z^i$. The clustering and COSMOS validation methods produce
consistent estimates of $\Delta z^i$, with combined uncertainties of
$\sigma_{\Delta z^i}=$0.015, 0.013, 0.011, and 0.022 in the four bins. We
marginalize over these in all analyses to follow, which does not diminish the
constraining power significantly. Repeating the photo-z procedure using the
Directional Neighborhood Fitting (DNF) algorithm instead of BPZ, or using the
$n^i(z)$ directly estimated from COSMOS, yields no discernible difference in
cosmological inferences.


Density split statistics: Cosmological constraints from counts and
  lensing in cells in DES Y1 and SDSS data

  We derive cosmological constraints from the probability distribution function
(PDF) of evolved large-scale matter density fluctuations. We do this by
splitting lines of sight by density based on their count of tracer galaxies,
and by measuring both gravitational shear around and counts-in-cells in
overdense and underdense lines of sight, in Dark Energy Survey (DES) First Year
and Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) data. Our analysis uses a perturbation
theory model (see companion paper Friedrich at al.) and is validated using
N-body simulation realizations and log-normal mocks. It allows us to constrain
cosmology, bias and stochasticity of galaxies w.r.t. matter density and, in
addition, the skewness of the matter density field.
  From a Bayesian model comparison, we find that the data weakly prefer a
connection of galaxies and matter that is stochastic beyond Poisson
fluctuations on <=20 arcmin angular smoothing scale. The two stochasticity
models we fit yield DES constraints on the matter density
$\Omega_m=0.26^{+0.04}_{-0.03}$ and $\Omega_m=0.28^{+0.05}_{-0.04}$ that are
consistent with each other. These values also agree with the DES analysis of
galaxy and shear two-point functions (3x2pt) that only uses second moments of
the PDF. Constraints on $\sigma_8$ are model dependent
($\sigma_8=0.97^{+0.07}_{-0.06}$ and $0.80^{+0.06}_{-0.07}$ for the two
stochasticity models), but consistent with each other and with the 3x2pt
results if stochasticity is at the low end of the posterior range.
  As an additional test of gravity, counts and lensing in cells allow to
compare the skewness $S_3$ of the matter density PDF to its LCDM prediction. We
find no evidence of excess skewness in any model or data set, with better than
25 per cent relative precision in the skewness estimate from DES alone.


SDSS-III: Massive Spectroscopic Surveys of the Distant Universe, the
  Milky Way Galaxy, and Extra-Solar Planetary Systems

  Building on the legacy of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS-I and II),
SDSS-III is a program of four spectroscopic surveys on three scientific themes:
dark energy and cosmological parameters, the history and structure of the Milky
Way, and the population of giant planets around other stars. In keeping with
SDSS tradition, SDSS-III will provide regular public releases of all its data,
beginning with SDSS DR8 (which occurred in Jan 2011). This paper presents an
overview of the four SDSS-III surveys. BOSS will measure redshifts of 1.5
million massive galaxies and Lya forest spectra of 150,000 quasars, using the
BAO feature of large scale structure to obtain percent-level determinations of
the distance scale and Hubble expansion rate at z<0.7 and at z~2.5. SEGUE-2,
which is now completed, measured medium-resolution (R=1800) optical spectra of
118,000 stars in a variety of target categories, probing chemical evolution,
stellar kinematics and substructure, and the mass profile of the dark matter
halo from the solar neighborhood to distances of 100 kpc. APOGEE will obtain
high-resolution (R~30,000), high signal-to-noise (S/N>100 per resolution
element), H-band (1.51-1.70 micron) spectra of 10^5 evolved, late-type stars,
measuring separate abundances for ~15 elements per star and creating the first
high-precision spectroscopic survey of all Galactic stellar populations (bulge,
bar, disks, halo) with a uniform set of stellar tracers and spectral
diagnostics. MARVELS will monitor radial velocities of more than 8000 FGK stars
with the sensitivity and cadence (10-40 m/s, ~24 visits per star) needed to
detect giant planets with periods up to two years, providing an unprecedented
data set for understanding the formation and dynamical evolution of giant
planet systems. (Abridged)


The Ninth Data Release of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey: First
  Spectroscopic Data from the SDSS-III Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey

  The Sloan Digital Sky Survey III (SDSS-III) presents the first spectroscopic
data from the Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS). This ninth data
release (DR9) of the SDSS project includes 535,995 new galaxy spectra (median
z=0.52), 102,100 new quasar spectra (median z=2.32), and 90,897 new stellar
spectra, along with the data presented in previous data releases. These spectra
were obtained with the new BOSS spectrograph and were taken between 2009
December and 2011 July. In addition, the stellar parameters pipeline, which
determines radial velocities, surface temperatures, surface gravities, and
metallicities of stars, has been updated and refined with improvements in
temperature estimates for stars with T_eff<5000 K and in metallicity estimates
for stars with [Fe/H]>-0.5. DR9 includes new stellar parameters for all stars
presented in DR8, including stars from SDSS-I and II, as well as those observed
as part of the SDSS-III Sloan Extension for Galactic Understanding and
Exploration-2 (SEGUE-2).
  The astrometry error introduced in the DR8 imaging catalogs has been
corrected in the DR9 data products. The next data release for SDSS-III will be
in Summer 2013, which will present the first data from the Apache Point
Observatory Galactic Evolution Experiment (APOGEE) along with another year of
data from BOSS, followed by the final SDSS-III data release in December 2014.


US Cosmic Visions: New Ideas in Dark Matter 2017: Community Report

  This white paper summarizes the workshop "U.S. Cosmic Visions: New Ideas in
Dark Matter" held at University of Maryland on March 23-25, 2017.


The Long-Baseline Neutrino Experiment: Exploring Fundamental Symmetries
  of the Universe

  The preponderance of matter over antimatter in the early Universe, the
dynamics of the supernova bursts that produced the heavy elements necessary for
life and whether protons eventually decay --- these mysteries at the forefront
of particle physics and astrophysics are key to understanding the early
evolution of our Universe, its current state and its eventual fate. The
Long-Baseline Neutrino Experiment (LBNE) represents an extensively developed
plan for a world-class experiment dedicated to addressing these questions. LBNE
is conceived around three central components: (1) a new, high-intensity
neutrino source generated from a megawatt-class proton accelerator at Fermi
National Accelerator Laboratory, (2) a near neutrino detector just downstream
of the source, and (3) a massive liquid argon time-projection chamber deployed
as a far detector deep underground at the Sanford Underground Research
Facility. This facility, located at the site of the former Homestake Mine in
Lead, South Dakota, is approximately 1,300 km from the neutrino source at
Fermilab -- a distance (baseline) that delivers optimal sensitivity to neutrino
charge-parity symmetry violation and mass ordering effects. This ambitious yet
cost-effective design incorporates scalability and flexibility and can
accommodate a variety of upgrades and contributions. With its exceptional
combination of experimental configuration, technical capabilities, and
potential for transformative discoveries, LBNE promises to be a vital facility
for the field of particle physics worldwide, providing physicists from around
the globe with opportunities to collaborate in a twenty to thirty year program
of exciting science. In this document we provide a comprehensive overview of
LBNE's scientific objectives, its place in the landscape of neutrino physics
worldwide, the technologies it will incorporate and the capabilities it will
possess.


