Infinitely many non-radial sign-changing solutions for a Fractional
  Laplacian equation with critical nonlinearity

  In this work, the following fractional Laplacian problem with pure critical
nonlinearity is considered \begin{equation*} \left\{ \begin{array}{ll}
(-\Delta)^{s} u=|u|^{\frac{4s}{N-2s}}u, &\mbox{in}\ \mathbb{R}^N, \\ u\in
\mathcal{D}^{s,2}(\mathbb{R}^N), \end{array} \right. \end{equation*} where
$s\in (0,1)$, $N$ is a positive integer with $N\geq 3$, $(-\Delta)^{s}$ is the
fractional Laplacian operator. We will prove that this problem has infinitely
many non-radial sign-changing solutions.


FeII and FeI emission in IRAS 07598+6508 and PHL 1092

  One of the puzzles in understanding the spectra of active galactic nuclei
(AGN) is the origin of the FeII emission. FeI emission, if present, will help
reveal the physical conditions of the emitting gas. In an attempt to verify the
presence of FeI lines, high S/N spectra of two FeII-strong quasars, IRAS
07598-6508 and PHL 1092, were obtained at the Multiple Mirror Telescope and the
Steward 2.3 m Telescope. We have identified emission lines of FeI and TiII. The
source of energy for FeII, FeI and TiII emission is probably not from
ionization by the photon continuum, but heat. The high rate of energy
generation and the presence of both high and low velocity gas indicate that the
heat is generated not over a large area, but a narrow band in accretion disk,
in which the rotational speed decreases rapidly.


On SchrÃ¶dinger equations with periodic potentials and with nonperiodic
  nonlinearities

  We consider the Schr\"{o}dinger equation $-\Delta u +V(x)u=f(x, u)$, where
$V$ is periodic and $f$ is non-periodic, 0 is a boundary point of the
continuous spectrum of $A:=-\Delta +V(x)$. We use M. Willem and W. M. Zou's
linking theorem and M. Schechter's method to establish an existence result for
this problem in weak superlinear cases. In a sense, we enrich a recent result
of M. Willem and W.M. Zou [M. Willem and W.M. Zou, On a Schr\"{o}dinger
Equation with Periodic Potential and Spectrum Point Zero,Indiana Univ. Math. J.
2003].


Orlicz-Sobolev versus Holder local minimizer and multiplicity results
  for quasilinear elliptic equations

  We study the following boundary value problem (P)\ \ \ \ \
{-\mathrm{div}(a(|\nabla u|)\nabla u)=f(x,u),\ & in $\Omega$, u=0, & on
$\partial\Omega$} with nonhomogeneous principal part. By assuming the
nonlinearity $f(x, t)$ being subcritical growth, some abstract results of
problem (P) are obtained: (1) Regularity; (2) Orlicz-Sobolev versus H\"{o}lder
local minimizer; (3) Strong comparison principle. Applying these abstract
results and critical point theory, we prove the existence of multiple solutions
of problem (P) in an Orlicz-Sobolev space.


The cone Moser-Trudinger inequalities and theirapplications

  In this article, we firstly study the cone Moser-Trudinger inequalities and
their best exponents $\alpha_2$ on both bounded and unbounded domains
$\mathbb{R}^2_{+}$. Then, using the cone Moser-Trudinger inequalities, we study
the existence of weak solutions to the nonlinear equation \begin{equation*}
\left\{\begin{array}{ll} -\Delta_{\mathbb{B}} u=f(x, u), &\mbox{in}\ x\in
\mbox{int} (\mathbb{B}), \\ u= 0, &\mbox{on}\ \partial\mathbb{B}, \end{array}
\right. \end{equation*} where $\Delta_{\mathbb{B}}$ is Fuchsian type Laplace
operator investigated with totally characteristic degeneracy on the boundary
$x_1 =0$, and the nonlinearity $f$ has the subcritical exponential growth or
the critical exponential growth.


Standing waves for the Chern-Simons-Schrodinger equation with critical
  exponential growth

  In this paper, by combing the variational methods and Trudinger-Moser
inequality, we study the existence and multiplicity of the positive standing
wave for the following Chern-Simons-Schr\"odinger equation \begin{equation}
-\Delta u+u
+\lambda\left(\int_{0}^{\infty}\frac{h(s)}{s}u^{2}(s)ds+\frac{h^{2}(\vert
x\vert)}{\vert x\vert^{2}}\right)u=f(x,u)+\epsilon k(x)\quad\quad
\text{in}\,\,\mathbb{R}^2, \\ \end{equation} where
$h(s)=\int_{0}^{s}\frac{l}{2}u^{2}(l)dl$, $\lambda>0$ and the nonlinearity
$f:\mathbb{R}^2\times \mathbb{R}\rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ behaves like
$\text{exp}(\alpha\vert u\vert^{2})$ as $\vert u\vert\rightarrow \infty$. For
the case $\epsilon=0$, we can get a mountain-pass type solution.


The Decay Rate of Patterson-Sullivan Measures with Potential Functions
  and Critical Exponents

  Basing upon the recent development of the Patterson-Sullivan measures with a
H\"older continuous nonzero potential function, we use tools of both dynamics
of geodesic flows and geometric properties of negatively curved manifolds to
present a new formula illustrating the relation between the exponential decay
rate of Patterson-Sullivan measures with a H\"older continuous potential
function and the corresponding critical exponent.


On the mixing and Bernoulli properties for geodesic flows on rank 1
  manifolds without focal points

  If $(M,g)$ is a smooth compact rank $1$ Riemannian manifold without focal
points, it is shown that the measure $\mu_{\max}$ of maximal entropy for the
geodesic flow is unique. In this article, we study the statistic properties and
prove that this unique measure $\mu_{\max}$ is mixing. Stronger conclusion that
the geodesic flow on the unit tangent bundle $SM$ with respect to $\mu_{\max}$
is Bernoulli is acquired provided $M$ is a compact surface with genus greater
than one and no focal points.


Collective Motion of Inelastic Particles between Two Oscillating Walls

  This study theoretically considers the motion of N identical inelastic
particles between two oscillating walls. The particles' average energy
increases abruptly at certain critical filling fractions, wherein the system
changes into a solid-like phase with particles clustered in their compact form.
Molecular dynamics simulations of the system show that the critical filling
fraction is a decreasing function of vibration amplitude independent of
vibration frequency, which is consistent with previous experimental results.
This study considers the entire group of particles as a giant pseudo-particle
with an effective size and an effective coefficient of restitution. The
N-particles system is then analytically treated as a one-particle problem. The
critical filling fraction's dependence on vibration amplitude can be explained
as a necessary condition for a stable resonant solution. The fluctuation to the
system's mean flow energy is also studied to show the relation between the
granular temperature and the system phase.


Nontrivial solutions for semilinear elliptic systems via Orlicz-Sobolev
  theory

  In this paper, the semilinear elliptic systems with Dirichlet boundary value
are considered \begin{align} \left\{\begin{array}{ll}
  -\Delta v=f(u) & \mathrm{in}\ \Omega,
  -\Delta u=g(v) & \mathrm{in}\ \Omega, u=0, \ v=0 & \mathrm{on}\
\partial\Omega, \end{array} \right. \end{align}
  We extend the notion of subcritical growth from polynomial growth to
N-function growth. Under N-function growth, nontrivial solutions are obtained
via Orlicz-Sobolev spaces and variational methods. It's also noteworthy that
the nonlinear term $g(v)$ does not have to satisfy the usual
Ambrosetti-Rabinowitz condition. So, in a sense, we enrich recent results of D.
~G. de Figueiredo, J. ~M. do {\'O} and B. ~Ruf [D. ~G. de Figueiredo, J.M. do
{\'O}, B. ~Ruf, An {O}rlicz-space approach to superlinear elliptic systems, J.
Funct. Anal. 224 (2005) 471--496].


The energy identity of Sacks-Uhlenbeck operator and infinitely many
  solutions for Brezis-Nirenberg problem

  Let $\Omega$ be a bounded smooth domain in $\mathbb{R}^N$ with $N\geq 3$,
$1<\alpha$, $2^{\ast}=\frac{2N}{N-2}$ and $\{u_\alpha\}\subset
H_{0}^{1,2\alpha}(\Omega)$ be a critical point of the functional
\begin{equation*} I_{\alpha,\lambda}(u)=\frac{1}{2\alpha}\int\limits_{\Omega}
[(1+|\nabla u|^2)^{\alpha}-1
]dx-\frac{\lambda}{2}\int\limits_{\Omega}u^2dx-\frac{1}{2^{\ast}}\int\limits_{\Omega}|u|^{2^{\ast}}dx.
\end{equation*} In this paper, we obtain the limit behaviour of $u_\alpha$ (
$\alpha\rightarrow 1$), energy identity, Pohozaev identity, some integral
estimates, etc. And using these results, we prove infinitely many solutions for
the following Brezis-Nirenberg problem for $N\geq 7$: \begin{equation*} \left\{
\begin{aligned}
  &-\Delta u=|u|^{2^{\ast}-2}u+\lambda u\ \ \ \mbox{in}\ \Omega,\\ &u=0,\ \
\mbox{on}\ \partial\Omega. \end{aligned} \right. \end{equation*}


Field-induced Domain Reorientation and Polarization Rotation of <110>
  Oriented Pb(Mg1/3Nb2/3)O3-PbTiO3 Single Crystals

  Polarization hysteresis loops, x-ray diffraction (XRD) and temperature
dependent dielectric constant under different electric fields for <110>
oriented 0.7 Pb(Mg1/3Nb2/3)O3-0.3PbTiO3 single crystals were measured. The
field-induced phase transition and the process of depolarization were
discussed. The results show that with the electric field increasing, the
crystal form changes along via polar-axis reorientation and polarization
rotation. However, the depolarization process is not just the reversal of the
polarization process. It is noticed that just from the temperature dependent
dielectric behavior is not enough to judge the processes of the E-field induced
phase transition.


Experimental Implementaton of Dense Coding Using Nuclear Magnetic
  Resonance

  Quantum dense coding has been demonstrated experimentally in terms of quantum
logic gates and circuits in quantum computation and NMR technique. Two bits of
information have been transmitted through manipulating one of the maximally
entangled two-state quantum pair, which is completely consistent with the
original ideal of Bennett-Wiesner proposal. Although information transmission
happens between spins over inter-atomic distance, the scheme of entanglement
transformation and measurement can be used in other processes of quantum
information and quantum computing.


Experimental realization of a highly structured search algorithm

  The highly structured search algorithm proposed by Hogg[Phys.Rev.Lett.
80,2473(1998)] is implemented experimentally for the 1-SAT problem in a single
search step by using nuclear magnetic resonance technique with two-qubit
sample. It is the first demonstration of the Hogg's algorithm, and can be
readily extended to solving 1-SAT problem for more qubits in one step if the
appropriate samples possessing more qubits are experimentally feasible.


On the ergodicity of geodesic flows on surfaces without focal points

  In this article, we study the ergodicity of the geodesic flows on surfaces
with no focal points. Let $M$ be a smooth connected and closed surface equipped
with a $C^\infty$ Riemannian metric $g$, whose genus $\mathfrak{g} \geq 2$.
Suppose that $(M,g)$ has no focal points. We prove that the geodesic flow on
the unit tangent bundle of $M$ is ergodic with respect to the Liouville
measure, under the assumption that the set of points on $M$ with negative
curvature has at most finitely many connected components.


Electrical homogeneity of large-area chemical vapor deposited multilayer
  hexagonal boron nitride sheets

  Hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) is a two dimensional (2D) layered insulator
with superior dielectric performance that offers excellent interaction with
other 2D materials (e.g. graphene, MoS2). Large-area h-BN can be readily grown
on metallic substrates via chemical vapor deposition (CVD), but the impact of
local inhomogeneities on the electrical properties of the h-BN and their effect
in electronic devices is unknown. Here it is shown that the electrical
properties of h-BN stacks grown on polycrystalline Pt vary a lot depending on
the crystalline orientation of the Pt grain, but within the same grain the
electrical properties of the h-BN are very homogeneous. The reason is that the
thickness of the CVD-grown h-BN stack is different on each Pt grain. Conductive
atomic force microscopy (CAFM) maps show that the tunneling current across the
h-BN stack fluctuates up to 3 orders of magnitude from one Pt grain to another.
However, probe station experiments reveal that the variability of electronic
devices fabricated within the same Pt grain is surprisingly small. As
cutting-edge electronic devices are ultra-scaled, and as the size of the
metallic substrate grains can easily exceed 100 {\mu}m (in diameter), CVD-grown
h-BN stacks may be useful to fabricate electronic devices with low variability.


Superconductivity at 22.3 K in SrFe2-xIrxAs2

  By substituting the Fe with the 5d-transition metal Ir in SrFe2As2, we have
successfully synthesized the superconductor SrFe2-xIrxAs2 with Tc = 22.3 K at x
= 0.5. X-ray diffraction indicates that the material has formed the
ThCr2Si2-type structure with a space group I4/mmm. The temperature dependence
of resistivity and dc magnetization both reveal sharp superconducting
transitions at around 22 K. An estimate on the diamagnetization signal reveals
a high Meissner shielding volume. Interestingly, the normal state resistivity
exhibits a roughly linear behavior up to 300 K. The superconducting transitions
at different magnetic fields were also measured yielding a slope of -dHc2/dT =
3.8 T/K near Tc. Using the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) formula, the upper
critical field at zero K is found to be about 58 T. Counting the possible
number of electrons doped into the system in SrFe2-xIrxAs2, we argue that the
superconductivity in the Ir-doped system is different from the Co-doped case,
which should add more ingredients to the underlying physics of the iron
pnictide superconductors.


Superconductivity and phase diagrams in 4d- and 5d-metal-doped iron
  arsenides SrFe_{2-x}M_xAs_2 (M = Rh, Ir, Pd)

  By substituting the Fe with the 4d and 5d-transition metals Rh, Ir and Pd in
SrFe_2As_2, we have successfully synthesized a series of superconductors
SrFe_{2-x}M_xAs_2 (M = Rh, Ir and Pd) and explored the phase diagrams of them.
The systematic evolution of the lattice constants indicated that part of the Fe
ions were successfully replaced by the transition metals Rh, Ir and Pd. By
increasing the doping content of Rh, Ir and Pd, the antiferromagnetic state of
the parent phase is suppressed progressively and superconductivity is induced.
The general phase diagrams were obtained and found to be similar to the case of
doping Co and Ni to the Fe sites. However, the detailed structure of the phase
diagram, in terms of how fast to suppress the antiferromagnetic order and
induce the superconductivity, varies from one kind of doped element to another.
Regarding the close values of the maximum superconducting transition
temperatures in doping Co, Rh and Ir which locate actually in the same column
in the periodic table of elements but have very different masses, we argue that
the superconductivity is intimately related to the suppression of the AF order,
rather than the electron-phonon coupling.


Poisson Vector Graphics (PVG) and Its Closed-Form Solver

  This paper presents Poisson vector graphics, an extension of the popular
first-order diffusion curves, for generating smooth-shaded images. Armed with
two new types of primitives, namely Poisson curves and Poisson regions, PVG can
easily produce photorealistic effects such as specular highlights, core
shadows, translucency and halos. Within the PVG framework, users specify color
as the Dirichlet boundary condition of diffusion curves and control tone by
offsetting the Laplacian, where both controls are simply done by mouse click
and slider dragging. The separation of color and tone not only follows the
basic drawing principle that is widely adopted by professional artists, but
also brings three unique features to PVG, i.e., local hue change, ease of
extrema control, and permit of intersection among geometric primitives, making
PVG an ideal authoring tool.
  To render PVG, we develop an efficient method to solve 2D Poisson's equations
with piecewise constant Laplacians. In contrast to the conventional finite
element method that computes numerical solutions only, our method expresses the
solution using harmonic B-spline, whose basis functions can be constructed
locally and the control coefficients are obtained by solving a small sparse
linear system. Our closed-form solver is numerically stable and it supports
random access evaluation, zooming-in of arbitrary resolution and anti-aliasing.
Although the harmonic B-spline based solutions are approximate, computational
results show that the relative mean error is less than 0.3%, which cannot be
distinguished by naked eyes.


Spin-orbit gap of graphene: First-principles calculations

  Even though graphene is a low energy system consisting of the two dimensional
honeycomb lattice of carbon atoms, its quasi-particle excitations are fully
described by the 2+1 dimensional relativistic Dirac equation. In this paper we
show that while the spin-orbit interaction in graphene is of the order of $4
meV$, it opens up a gap of the order of $10^{-3} meV$ at the Dirac points. We
present the first principle calculation of the spin-orbit gap, and explain the
behavior in terms of a simple tight-binding model. Our result also shows that
the recently predicted quantum spin Hall effect in graphene can only occur at
unrealistically low temperature.


Experimental Test of Complementarity by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
  Techniques

  We have tested complementarity for the ensemble-averaged spin states of
nuclei $^{13}$C in the molecule of $^{13}$CHCl$_{3}$ by the use of the spin
states of another nuclei $^{1}$H as the path marker. It turns out that the
wave-particle duality holds when one merely measures the probability density of
quantum states, and that the wave- and particle-like behavior is simultaneously
observed with the help of measuring populations and coherence in a single
nuclear magnetic resonance(NMR) experiment. Effects of path-marking schemes and
causes of the appearance and disappearance of the wave behavior are analysed.


Low-threshold whispering-gallery-mode microlasers fabricated in a Nd:
  glass substrate by three-dimensional femtosecond laser micromachining

  We report on fabrication of whispering-gallery-mode microlasers in a Nd:glass
chip by femtosecond laser three-dimensional (3D) micromachining. Main
fabrication procedures include the fabrication of freestanding microdisks
supported by thin pillars by femtosecond laser ablation of the glass substrate
immersed in water, followed by CO2 laser annealing for surface smoothing.
Lasing is observed at a pump threshold as low as ~69 {\mu}W at room temperature
with a continuous-wave laser diode operating at 780nm. This technique allows
for fabrication of microcavities of high quality factors in various dielectric
materials such as glasses and crystals.


Fabrication of three-dimensional microdisk resonators in calcium
  fluoride by femtosecond laser micromachining

  We report on fabrication of on-chip calcium fluoride (CaF2) microdisk
resonators using water-assisted femtosecond laser micromachining. Focused ion
beam (FIB) milling is used to create ultra-smooth sidewalls. The quality
(Q)-factors of the fabricated microresonators are measured to be 4.2x10^4 at
wavelengths near 1550 nm. The Q factor is mainly limited by the scattering from
the bottom surface of the disk whose roughness remains high due to the
femtosecond laser micromachining process. This technique facilitates formation
of on-chip microresonators on various kinds of bulk crystalline materials,
which can benefit a wide range of applications such as nonlinear optics,
quantum optics, and chip-level integration of photonic devices.


On-chip three-dimensional high-Q microcavities fabricated by femtosecond
  laser direct writing

  We report on the fabrication of three-dimensional (3D) high-Q whispering
gallery microcavities on a fused silica chip by femtosecond laser
microfabriction, enabled by the 3D nature of femtosecond laser direct writing.
The processing mainly consists of formation of freestanding microdisks by
femtosecond laser direct writing and subsequent wet chemical etching. CO2 laser
annealing is followed to smooth the microcavity surface. Microcavities with
arbitrary tilting angle, lateral and vertical positioning are demonstrated, and
the quality (Q)-factor of a typical microcavity is measured to be up to
1.07x10^6, which is currently limited by the low spatial resolution of motion
stage used during the laser patterning and can be improved with motion stages
of higher resolutions.


The effect of heterogeneity on flocking behavior and systemic risk

  The goal of this paper is to study organized flocking behavior and systemic
risk in heterogeneous mean-field interacting diffusions. We illustrate in a
number of case studies the effect of heterogeneity in the behavior of systemic
risk in the system, i.e., the risk that several agents default simultaneously
as a result of interconnections. We also investigate the effect of
heterogeneity on the "flocking behavior" of different agents, i.e., when agents
with different dynamics end up following very similar paths and follow closely
the mean behavior of the system. Using Laplace asymptotics, we derive an
asymptotic formula for the tail of the loss distribution as the number of
agents grows to infinity. This characterizes the tail of the loss distribution
and the effect of the heterogeneity of the network on the tail loss
probability.


Direct identification of monolayer rhenium diselenide by an individual
  diffraction pattern

  In the current extensive studies of transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs),
compared to hexagonal layered materials, like graphene, hBN and MoS2, low
symmetry layered 2D crystals showed great potential for applications in
anisotropic devices. Rhenium diselenide (ReSe2) has the bulk space group P1 and
belongs to triclinic crystal system with a deformed cadmium iodide type
structure. Here we unambiguously determined monolayer and its vertical
orientation of rhenium diselenide membrane with an individual electron
diffraction pattern, which could be applicable to low symmetry crystal systems,
including both triclinic and monoclinic lattices, as long as their third
unit-cell basis vector is not perpendicular to basal plane. Atomically resolved
image from probe corrected annular dark field scanning transmission electron
microscope (ADF-STEM) was employed to validate layer number. Finally,
experimental results were well explained by kinematical electron diffraction
theory and corresponding simulations.


Long-Term Ensemble Learning of Visual Place Classifiers

  This paper addresses the problem of cross-season visual place classification
(VPC) from a novel perspective of long-term map learning. Our goal is to enable
transfer learning efficiently from one season to the next, at a small constant
cost, and without wasting the robot's available long-term-memory by memorizing
very large amounts of training data. To realize a good tradeoff between
generalization and specialization abilities, we employ an ensemble of
convolutional neural network (DCN) classifiers and consider the task of
scheduling (when and which classifiers to retrain), given a previous season's
DCN classifiers as the sole prior knowledge. We present a unified framework for
retraining scheduling and discuss practical implementation strategies.
Furthermore, we address the task of partitioning a robot's workspace into
places to define place classes in an unsupervised manner, rather than using
uniform partitioning, so as to maximize VPC performance. Experiments using the
publicly available NCLT dataset revealed that retraining scheduling of a DCN
classifier ensemble is crucial and performance is significantly increased by
using planned scheduling.


Spatio-Temporal Pricing for Ridesharing Platforms

  Ridesharing platforms match drivers and riders to trips, using dynamic prices
to balance supply and demand. A challenge is to set prices that are
appropriately smooth in space and time, so that drivers will choose to accept
their dispatched trips, rather than drive to another area or wait for higher
prices or a better trip. We work in a complete information, discrete time,
multi-period, multi-location model, and introduce the Spatio-Temporal Pricing
(STP) mechanism. The mechanism is incentive-aligned, in that it is a
subgame-perfect equilibrium for drivers to accept their dispatches. The
mechanism is also welfare-optimal, envy-free, individually rational, budget
balanced and core-selecting from any history onward. The proof of incentive
alignment makes use of the $M^\natural$ concavity of min-cost flow objectives.
We also give an impossibility result, that there can be no dominant-strategy
mechanism with the same economic properties. An empirical analysis conducted in
simulation suggests that the STP mechanism can achieve significantly higher
social welfare than a myopic pricing mechanism.


Designing the Game to Play: Optimizing Payoff Structure in Security
  Games

  Effective game-theoretic modeling of defender-attacker behavior is becoming
increasingly important. In many domains, the defender functions not only as a
player but also the designer of the game's payoff structure. We study
Stackelberg Security Games where the defender, in addition to allocating
defensive resources to protect targets from the attacker, can strategically
manipulate the attacker's payoff under budget constraints in weighted L^p-norm
form regarding the amount of change. Focusing on problems with weighted
L^1-norm form constraint, we present (i) a mixed integer linear program-based
algorithm with approximation guarantee; (ii) a branch-and-bound based algorithm
with improved efficiency achieved by effective pruning; (iii) a polynomial time
approximation scheme for a special but practical class of problems. In
addition, we show that problems under budget constraints in L^0-norm form and
weighted L^\infty-norm form can be solved in polynomial time. We provide an
extensive experimental evaluation of our proposed algorithms.


The Impact of Humanoid Affect Expression on Human Behavior in a
  Game-Theoretic Setting

  With the rapid development of robot and other intelligent and autonomous
agents, how a human could be influenced by a robot's expressed mood when making
decisions becomes a crucial question in human-robot interaction. In this pilot
study, we investigate (1) in what way a robot can express a certain mood to
influence a human's decision making behavioral model; (2) how and to what
extent the human will be influenced in a game theoretic setting. More
specifically, we create an NLP model to generate sentences that adhere to a
specific affective expression profile. We use these sentences for a humanoid
robot as it plays a Stackelberg security game against a human. We investigate
the behavioral model of the human player.


Tractable Graph Matching via Soft Seeding

  The graph matching problem aims to discover a latent correspondence between
the vertex sets of two observed graphs. This problem has proven to be quite
challenging, with few satisfying methods that are computationally tractable and
widely applicable. The FAQ algorithm has proven to have good performance on
benchmark problems and works with a indefinite relaxation of the problem. Due
to the indefinite relaxation, FAQ is not guaranteed to find the global maximum.
However, if prior information is known about the true correspondence, this can
be leveraged to initialize the algorithm near the truth. We show that given
certain properties of this initial matrix, with high probability the FAQ
algorithm will converge in two steps to the truth under a flexible model for
pairs of random graphs. Importantly, this result implies that there will be no
local optima near the global optima, providing a method to assess performance.


The intrinsic relations of quantum resources in multiparticle systems

  Quantum resources play crucial roles for displaying superiority in many
quantum communication and computation tasks. To reveal the intrinsic relations
hidden in these quantum resources, many efforts have been made in recent years.
In this work, we investigate the correlations of the tripartite W-type states
based on bipartite quantum resources. The interrelations among the degree of
coherence, concurrence, Bell nonlocality and purity are presented. Considering
Bell nonlocal and Bell local (satisfied the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt
inequality) states for the two-qubit subsystems derived from the tripartite
W-type states, we find exact lower and upper boundaries of the degree of
coherence versus concurrence. Interestingly, exact relation among the degree of
coherence, concurrence and purity is obtained. Moreover, coherence is also
closely related to entanglement in two specific scenarios: the tripartite
W-type state under decoherence and a practical system for a renormalized
spin-1/2 chain.


Deep Reinforcement Learning for Green Security Games with Real-Time
  Information

  Green Security Games (GSGs) have been proposed and applied to optimize
patrols conducted by law enforcement agencies in green security domains such as
combating poaching, illegal logging and overfishing. However, real-time
information such as footprints and agents' subsequent actions upon receiving
the information, e.g., rangers following the footprints to chase the poacher,
have been neglected in previous work. To fill the gap, we first propose a new
game model GSG-I which augments GSGs with sequential movement and the vital
element of real-time information. Second, we design a novel deep reinforcement
learning-based algorithm, DeDOL, to compute a patrolling strategy that adapts
to the real-time information against a best-responding attacker. DeDOL is built
upon the double oracle framework and the policy-space response oracle, solving
a restricted game and iteratively adding best response strategies to it through
training deep Q-networks. Exploring the game structure, DeDOL uses
domain-specific heuristic strategies as initial strategies and constructs
several local modes for efficient and parallelized training. To our knowledge,
this is the first attempt to use Deep Q-Learning for security games.


On the Patterson-Sullivan measure for geodesic flows on rank $1$
  manifolds without focal points

  In this article, we consider the geodesic flow on a compact rank $1$
Riemannian manifold $M$ without focal points, whose universal cover is denoted
by $X$. On the ideal boundary $X(\infty)$ of $X$, we show the existence and
uniqueness of the Busemann density, which is realized via the
Patterson-Sullivan measure. Based on the the Patterson-Sullivan measure, we
show that the geodesic flow on $M$ has a unique invariant measure of maximal
entropy. We also obtain the asymptotic growth rate of the volume of geodesic
spheres in $X$ and the growth rate of the number of closed geodesics on $M$.
These results generalize the work of Margulis and Knieper in the case of
negative and nonpositive curvature respectively.


Towards Thwarting Social Engineering Attacks

  Social engineering attacks represent an increasingly important attack vector
growing in use by sophisticated hackers to compromise organizations. Water-hole
attacks, in particular, have been leveraged in many recent high profile hacks.
These attacks compromise a legitimate website to execute drive-by download
attacks by redirecting users to another domain with an exploit kit. To prevent
water-hole attacks, organizations use a slew of countermeasures that alter the
environment information given by employees visiting websites. In this paper, we
explore this domain and introduce a game-theoretic model that captures the most
relevant aspects for an organization protecting itself from a water-hole
attack. This model provides a foundation for an organization to implement an
automated protection policy that uses technological based countermeasures. Our
main contributions are (1) the Social Engineering Deception Game model, (2)
detailed analysis of the game model, (3) an algorithm to solve for the optimal
protection policy, (4) heuristics to improve the scalability of our approach,
and (5) detailed experiments that analyze the application of our approach.


Artificial Intelligence for Social Good

  The Computing Community Consortium (CCC), along with the White House Office
of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), and the Association for the
Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), co-sponsored a public workshop
on Artificial Intelligence for Social Good on June 7th, 2016 in Washington, DC.
This was one of five workshops that OSTP co-sponsored and held around the
country to spur public dialogue on artificial intelligence, machine learning,
and to identify challenges and opportunities related to AI. In the AI for
Social Good workshop, the successful deployments and the potential use of AI in
various topics that are essential for social good were discussed, including but
not limited to urban computing, health, environmental sustainability, and
public welfare. This report highlights each of these as well as a number of
crosscutting issues.


Feature Learning Viewpoint of AdaBoost and a New Algorithm

  The AdaBoost algorithm has the superiority of resisting overfitting.
Understanding the mysteries of this phenomena is a very fascinating fundamental
theoretical problem. Many studies are devoted to explaining it from statistical
view and margin theory. In this paper, we illustrate it from feature learning
viewpoint, and propose the AdaBoost+SVM algorithm, which can explain the
resistant to overfitting of AdaBoost directly and easily to understand.
Firstly, we adopt the AdaBoost algorithm to learn the base classifiers. Then,
instead of directly weighted combination the base classifiers, we regard them
as features and input them to SVM classifier. With this, the new coefficient
and bias can be obtained, which can be used to construct the final classifier.
We explain the rationality of this and illustrate the theorem that when the
dimension of these features increases, the performance of SVM would not be
worse, which can explain the resistant to overfitting of AdaBoost.


High-throughput, high-resolution registration-free generated adversarial
  network microscopy

  We combine generative adversarial network (GAN) with light microscopy to
achieve deep learning super-resolution under a large field of view (FOV). By
appropriately adopting prior microscopy data in an adversarial training, the
neural network can recover a high-resolution, accurate image of new specimen
from its single low-resolution measurement. Its capacity has been broadly
demonstrated via imaging various types of samples, such as USAF resolution
target, human pathological slides, fluorescence-labelled fibroblast cells, and
deep tissues in transgenic mouse brain, by both wide-field and light-sheet
microscopes. The gigapixel, multi-color reconstruction of these samples
verifies a successful GAN-based single image super-resolution procedure. We
also propose an image degrading model to generate low resolution images for
training, making our approach free from the complex image registration during
training dataset preparation. After a welltrained network being created, this
deep learning-based imaging approach is capable of recovering a large FOV (~95
mm2), high-resolution (~1.7 {\mu}m) image at high speed (within 1 second),
while not necessarily introducing any changes to the setup of existing
microscopes.


Electronic structure of FeS

  Here we report the electronic structure of FeS, a recently identified
iron-based superconductor. Our high-resolution angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy studies show two hole-like ($\alpha$ and $\beta$) and two
electron-like ($\eta$ and $\delta$) Fermi pockets around the Brillouin zone
center and corner, respectively, all of which exhibit moderate dispersion along
$k_z$. However, a third hole-like band ($\gamma$) is not observed, which is
expected around the zone center from band calculations and is common in
iron-based superconductors. Since this band has the highest renormalization
factor and is known to be the most vulnerable to defects, its absence in our
data is likely due to defect scattering --- and yet superconductivity can exist
without coherent quasiparticles in the $\gamma$ band. This may help resolve the
current controversy on the superconducting gap structure of FeS. Moreover, by
comparing the $\beta$ bandwidths of various iron chalcogenides, including FeS,
FeSe$_{1-x}$S$_x$, FeSe, and FeSe$_{1-x}$ Te$_x$, we find that the $\beta$
bandwidth of FeS is the broadest. However, the band renormalization factor of
FeS is still quite large, when compared with the band calculations, which
indicates sizable electron correlations. This explains why the unconventional
superconductivity can persist over such a broad range of isovalent substitution
in FeSe$_{1-x}$Te$_{x}$ and FeSe$_{1-x}$S$_{x}$.


Video Labeling for Automatic Video Surveillance in Security Domains

  Beyond traditional security methods, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have
become an important surveillance tool used in security domains to collect the
required annotated data. However, collecting annotated data from videos taken
by UAVs efficiently, and using these data to build datasets that can be used
for learning payoffs or adversary behaviors in game-theoretic approaches and
security applications, is an under-explored research question. This paper
presents VIOLA, a novel labeling application that includes (i) a workload
distribution framework to efficiently gather human labels from videos in a
secured manner; (ii) a software interface with features designed for labeling
videos taken by UAVs in the domain of wildlife security. We also present the
evolution of VIOLA and analyze how the changes made in the development process
relate to the efficiency of labeling, including when seemingly obvious
improvements did not lead to increased efficiency. VIOLA enables collecting
massive amounts of data with detailed information from challenging security
videos such as those collected aboard UAVs for wildlife security. VIOLA will
lead to the development of new approaches that integrate deep learning for
real-time detection and response.


What game are we playing? End-to-end learning in normal and extensive
  form games

  Although recent work in AI has made great progress in solving large,
zero-sum, extensive-form games, the underlying assumption in most past work is
that the parameters of the game itself are known to the agents. This paper
deals with the relatively under-explored but equally important "inverse"
setting, where the parameters of the underlying game are not known to all
agents, but must be learned through observations. We propose a differentiable,
end-to-end learning framework for addressing this task. In particular, we
consider a regularized version of the game, equivalent to a particular form of
quantal response equilibrium, and develop 1) a primal-dual Newton method for
finding such equilibrium points in both normal and extensive form games; and 2)
a backpropagation method that lets us analytically compute gradients of all
relevant game parameters through the solution itself. This ultimately lets us
learn the game by training in an end-to-end fashion, effectively by integrating
a "differentiable game solver" into the loop of larger deep network
architectures. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the learning method in
several settings including poker and security game tasks.


Exploiting Data and Human Knowledge for Predicting Wildlife Poaching

  Poaching continues to be a significant threat to the conservation of wildlife
and the associated ecosystem. Estimating and predicting where the poachers have
committed or would commit crimes is essential to more effective allocation of
patrolling resources. The real-world data in this domain is often sparse, noisy
and incomplete, consisting of a small number of positive data (poaching signs),
a large number of negative data with label uncertainty, and an even larger
number of unlabeled data. Fortunately, domain experts such as rangers can
provide complementary information about poaching activity patterns. However,
this kind of human knowledge has rarely been used in previous approaches. In
this paper, we contribute new solutions to the predictive analysis of poaching
patterns by exploiting both very limited data and human knowledge. We propose
an approach to elicit quantitative information from domain experts through a
questionnaire built upon a clustering-based division of the conservation area.
In addition, we propose algorithms that exploit qualitative and quantitative
information provided by the domain experts to augment the dataset and improve
learning. In collaboration with World Wild Fund for Nature, we show that
incorporating human knowledge leads to better predictions in a conservation
area in Northeastern China where the charismatic species is Siberian Tiger. The
results show the importance of exploiting human knowledge when learning from
limited data.


On the Inducibility of Stackelberg Equilibrium for Security Games

  Strong Stackelberg equilibrium (SSE) is the standard solution concept of
Stackelberg security games. As opposed to the weak Stackelberg equilibrium
(WSE), the SSE assumes that the follower breaks ties in favor of the leader and
this is widely acknowledged and justified by the assertion that the defender
can often induce the attacker to choose a preferred action by making an
infinitesimal adjustment to her strategy. Unfortunately, in security games with
resource assignment constraints, the assertion might not be valid; it is
possible that the defender cannot induce the desired outcome. As a result, many
results claimed in the literature may be overly optimistic. To remedy, we first
formally define the utility guarantee of a defender strategy and provide
examples to show that the utility of SSE can be higher than its utility
guarantee. Second, inspired by the analysis of leader's payoff by Von Stengel
and Zamir (2004), we provide the solution concept called the inducible
Stackelberg equilibrium (ISE), which owns the highest utility guarantee and
always exists. Third, we show the conditions when ISE coincides with SSE and
the fact that in general case, SSE can be extremely worse with respect to
utility guarantee. Moreover, introducing the ISE does not invalidate existing
algorithmic results as the problem of computing an ISE polynomially reduces to
that of computing an SSE. We also provide an algorithmic implementation for
computing ISE, with which our experiments unveil the empirical advantage of the
ISE over the SSE.


Large Scale Learning of Agent Rationality in Two-Player Zero-Sum Games

  With the recent advances in solving large, zero-sum extensive form games,
there is a growing interest in the inverse problem of inferring underlying game
parameters given only access to agent actions. Although a recent work provides
a powerful differentiable end-to-end learning frameworks which embed a game
solver within a deep-learning framework, allowing unknown game parameters to be
learned via backpropagation, this framework faces significant limitations when
applied to boundedly rational human agents and large scale problems, leading to
poor practicality. In this paper, we address these limitations and propose a
framework that is applicable for more practical settings. First, seeking to
learn the rationality of human agents in complex two-player zero-sum games, we
draw upon well-known ideas in decision theory to obtain a concise and
interpretable agent behavior model, and derive solvers and gradients for
end-to-end learning. Second, to scale up to large, real-world scenarios, we
propose an efficient first-order primal-dual method which exploits the
structure of extensive-form games, yielding significantly faster computation
for both game solving and gradient computation. When tested on randomly
generated games, we report speedups of orders of magnitude over previous
approaches. We also demonstrate the effectiveness of our model on both
real-world one-player settings and synthetic data.


Entanglement of two quantum memories via metropolitan-scale fibers

  Quantum internet will enable a number of revolutionary applications, such as
distributed quantum computing, large-scale quantum communication and
cooperative operation of atomic clocks. It relies on entanglement of remote
quantum memories over long distances. Yet, maximal reported distance achieved
so far was merely about 1 km and experimental challenges for long distance
remains. Here, by using cavity enhancement to create bright atom-photon
entanglement and harnessing quantum frequency conversion to shift the atomic
wavelength to telecom, we create atom-atom entanglement over 22 km
field-deployed fibers via two-photon interference. Moreover, by exploiting a
concatenated phase-locking scheme, we use single-photon interference to
entangle two atomic ensembles by transmission over 50 km coiled fibers. Our
work demonstrates full-functional segments for atomic quantum networks at
metropolitan scale, and pave the way towards establishing atomic entanglement
over many nodes and over much longer distance in a scalable way.


Millimeter Spectral Line Mapping Observations Toward Four Massive Star
  Forming HII Regions

  We present spectral line mapping observations toward four massive
star-forming regions (Cepheus A, DR21S, S76E and G34.26+0.15), with the IRAM 30
meter telescope at 2 mm and 3 mm bands. Totally 396 spectral lines from 51
molecules, one helium recombination line, ten hydrogen recombination lines, and
16 unidentified lines were detected in these four sources. An emission line of
nitrosyl cyanide (ONCN, 14$_{0,14}$-13$_{0,13}$) was detected in G34.26+0.15,
as first detection in massive star-forming regions. We found that the
$c$-C$_{3}$H$_{2}$ and NH$_{2}$D show enhancement in shocked regions as
suggested by evidences of SiO and/or SO emission. Column density and rotational
temperature of CH$_{3}$CN were estimated with the rotational diagram method for
all four sources. Isotope abundance ratios of $^{12}$C/$^{13}$C were derived
using HC$_{3}$N and its $^{13}$C isotopologue, which were around 40 in all four
massive star-forming regions and slightly lower than the local interstellar
value ($\sim$65). $^{14}$N/$^{15}$N and $^{16}$O/$^{18}$O abundance ratios in
these sources were also derived using double isotopic method, which were
slightly lower than that in local interstellar medium. Except for Cep A,
$^{33}$S/$^{34}$S ratio in the other three targets were derived, which were
similar to that in the local interstellar medium. The column density ratios of
N(DCN)/N(HCN) and N(DCO$^{+}$)/N(HCO$^{+}$) in these sources were more than two
orders of magnitude higher than the elemental [D]/[H] ratio, which is
1.5$\times$10$ ^{-5}$. Our results show the later stage sources, G34.26+0.15 in
particular, present more molecular species than earlier stage ones. Evidence of
shock activity is seen in all stages studied.


