Numerical coincidences and 'tuning' in cosmology

  Fred Hoyle famously drew attention to the significance of apparent
coincidences in the energy levels of the carbon and oxygen nucleus. This paper
addresses the possible implications of other coincidences in cosmology.


Narrow Gauge and Analytical Branching Strategies for Mixed Integer
  Programming

  State-of-the-art branch and bound algorithms for mixed integer programming
make use of special methods for making branching decisions. Strategies that
have gained prominence include modern variants of so-called strong branching
(Applegate, et al.,1995) and reliability branching (Achterberg, Koch and
Martin, 2005; Hendel, 2015), which select variables for branching by solving
associated linear programs and exploit pseudo-costs (Benichou et al., 1971). We
suggest new branching criteria and propose alternative branching approaches
called narrow gauge and analytical branching. The perspective underlying our
approaches is to focus on prioritization of child nodes to examine fewer
candidate variables at the current node of the B&B tree, balanced with
procedures to extrapolate the implications of choosing these candidates by
generating a small-depth look-ahead tree. Our procedures can also be used in
rules to select among open tree nodes (those whose child nodes have not yet
been generated). We incorporate pre- and post-winnowing procedures to
progressively isolate preferred branching candidates, and employ derivative
(created) variables whose branches are able to explore the solution space more
deeply.


The Dark Matter Problem in Light of Quantum Gravity

  We show how, by considering the cumulative effect of tiny quantum
gravitational fluctuations over very large distances, it may be possible to:
($a$) reconcile nucleosynthesis bounds on the density parameter of the Universe
with the predictions of inflationary cosmology, and ($b$) reproduce the
inferred variation of the density parameter with distance. Our calculation can
be interpreted as a computation of the contribution of quantum gravitational
degrees of freedom to the (local) energy density of the Universe.


Quasiconformal homogeneity after Gehring and Palks

  In a very influential paper Gehring and Palka introduced the notions of
quasiconformally homogeneous and uniformly quasiconformally homogeneous subsets
of Euclidean space. Their motivation was to provide a characterization of
quasi-disks, i.e. domains which are quasiconformally homeomorphic to the unit
disk. As a generalization, Bonfert-Taylor, Canary, Martin and Taylor initiated
the study of uniformly quasiconformally homogeneous hyperbolic manifolds. In
this paper, we review the theory of quasiconformally homogeneous subsets of
Euclidean and uniformly quasiconformally homogeneous hyperbolic manifolds. We
finish with a discussion of open problems in the theory.


Auxiliary Field Loop expansion for the Effective Action for Stochastic
  Partial Differential equations II

  We extend our discussion of effective actions for stochastic partial
differential equations to systems that give rise to a Martin-Siggia-Rose (MSR)
type of action. This type of action naturally arises when one uses the
many-body formalism of Doi and Peliti to describe reaction-diffusion models
which undergo transitions into the absorbing state and which are described by a
Master equation. These models include predator prey models, and directed
percolation models as well as chemical kinetic models. For classical dynamical
systems with external noise it is always possible to construct an MSR action.
  Using a path integral representation for the generator of the correlation
functions, we show how, by introducing a composite auxiliary field, one can
generate an auxiliary field loop expansion for the effective action for both
types of systems. As a specific example of the Doi-Peliti formalism we
determine the effective action for the chemical reaction annihilation and
diffusion process $A+A \rightarrow 0$. For the external noise problem we
evaluate the effective action for the Cole-Hopf form of the Kardar-Parisi Zhang
(KPZ) equation as well as for the Ginzburg Landau model of spin relaxation. We
determine for arbitrary spatial dimension $d$, the renormalized effective
potential in leading order in the auxiliary field loop expansion (LOAF) and
also determine the renormalization group equation for the running of the
reaction rate (coupling constant) for arbitrary $d$. We compare our results
with known perturbative and non-perturbative results for the renormalization
group equations.


A Million-Second Chandra View of Cassiopeia A

  We introduce a million-second observation of the supernova remnant Cassiopeia
A with the Chandra X-ray Observatory. The bipolar structure of the Si-rich
ejecta (NE jet and SW counterpart) is clearly evident in the new images, and
their chemical similarity is confirmed by their spectra. These are most likely
due to jets of ejecta as opposed to cavities in the circumstellar medium, since
we can reject simple models for the latter. The properties of these jets and
the Fe-rich ejecta will provide clues to the explosion of Cas A.


The WiggleZ Dark Energy Survey: Galaxy Evolution at 0.25 < z < 0.75
  Using The Second Red-Sequence Cluster Survey (RCS-2)

  We study the evolution of galaxy populations around the spectroscopic WiggleZ
sample of starforming galaxies at 0.25 < z < 0.75 using the photometric catalog
from the Second Red-Sequence Cluster Survey (RCS2). We probe the optical
photometric properties of the net excess neighbor galaxies. The key concept is
that the marker galaxies and their neighbors are located at the same redshift,
providing a sample of galaxies representing a complete census of galaxies in
the neighborhood of star-forming galaxies. The results are compared with those
using the RCS WiggleZ Spare-Fibre (RCS-WSF) sample as markers, representing
galaxies in cluster environments at 0.25 < z < 0.45. By analyzing the stacked
color-color properties of the WiggleZ neighbor galaxies, we find that their
optical colors are not a strong function of indicators of star-forming
activities such as EW([OII]) or GALEX NUV luminoisty of the markers. The
galaxies around the WiggleZ markers exhibit a bimodal distribution on the
color-magnitude diagram, with most of them located in the blue cloud. The
optical galaxy luminosity functions (GLF) of the blue neighbor galaxies have a
faint-end slope \alpha of \sim -1.3, similar to that for galaxies in cluster
environments drawn from the RCS-WSF sample. The faint-end slope of the GLF for
the red neighbors, however, is \sim -0.4, significantly shallower than the \sim
-0.7 found for those in cluster environments. This suggests that the build-up
of the faint-end of the red sequence in cluster environments is in a
significantly more advanced stage than that in the star-forming and lower
galaxy density WiggleZ neighborhoods. We find that the red galaxy fraction
(fred) around the star-forming WiggleZ galaxies has similar values from z \sim
0.3 to z \sim 0.6 with fred \sim 0.28, but drops to fred \sim 0.20 at z >
\sim0.7. This change of fred with redshift suggests that (and more...)


The Kruskal Count

  The Kruskal Count is a card trick invented by Martin J. Kruskal in which a
magician "guesses" a card selected by a subject according to a certain counting
procedure. With high probability the magician can correctly "guess" the card.
The success of the trick is based on a mathematical principle related to
coupling methods for Markov chains. This paper analyzes in detail two
simplified variants of the trick and estimates the probability of success. The
model predictions are compared with simulation data for several variants of the
actual trick.


Auxiliary Field Loop Expansion of the Effective Action for Stochastic
  Partial Differential Equations

  We present an alternative to the perturbative diagrammatic approach for
studying stochastic dynamics. Our approach is based on an auxiliary field loop
expansion for the path integral representation for the generating functional of
the noise induced correlation functions. We derive two different effective
actions, one based on the Onsager-Machlup (OM) approach, and the other on the
Martin-Siggia-Rose (MSR) response function approach. In particular we determine
the leading order approximation for the effective action and effective
potential for arbitrary spatial dimensions for several simple systems. These
include the Kardar-Parisi-Zhang (KPZ) equation, the chemical reaction
annihilation and diffusion process $A+A \rightarrow 0$, and the Ginzburg-Landau
(GL) model for spin relaxation. We show how to obtain the effective potential
of the OM approach from the effective potential in the MSR approach. For the
KPZ equation we find that our approximation, which is non-perturbative and
obeys broken symmetry Ward identities, does not lead to the appearance of a
fluctuation induced symmetry breakdown. This contradicts the results of earlier
studies. We also obtain some of the renormalization group flows directly from
the effective potential and compare our results with exact and perturbative
results.


Spatial Models for Field Trials

  An important aim of the analysis of agricultural field trials is to obtain
good predictions for genotypic performance, by correcting for spatial effects.
In practice these corrections turn out to be complicated, since there can be
different types of spatial effects; those due to management interventions
applied to the field plots and those due to various kinds of erratic spatial
trends. This paper presents models for field trials in which the random spatial
component consists of tensor product Penalized splines (P-splines). A special
ANOVA-type reformulation leads to five smooth additive spatial components,
which form the basis of a mixed model with five unknown variance components. On
top of this spatial field, effects of genotypes, blocks, replicates, and/or
other sources of spatial variation are described by a mixed model in a standard
way. We show the relation between several definitions of heritability and the
effective dimension or the effective degrees of freedom associated to the
genetic component. The approach is illustrated with large-scale field trial
experiments. An R-package is provided.


Learning Steerable Filters for Rotation Equivariant CNNs

  In many machine learning tasks it is desirable that a model's prediction
transforms in an equivariant way under transformations of its input.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) implement translational equivariance by
construction; for other transformations, however, they are compelled to learn
the proper mapping. In this work, we develop Steerable Filter CNNs (SFCNNs)
which achieve joint equivariance under translations and rotations by design.
The proposed architecture employs steerable filters to efficiently compute
orientation dependent responses for many orientations without suffering
interpolation artifacts from filter rotation. We utilize group convolutions
which guarantee an equivariant mapping. In addition, we generalize He's weight
initialization scheme to filters which are defined as a linear combination of a
system of atomic filters. Numerical experiments show a substantial enhancement
of the sample complexity with a growing number of sampled filter orientations
and confirm that the network generalizes learned patterns over orientations.
The proposed approach achieves state-of-the-art on the rotated MNIST benchmark
and on the ISBI 2012 2D EM segmentation challenge.


Mining and Forecasting Career Trajectories of Music Artists

  Many musicians, from up-and-comers to established artists, rely heavily on
performing live to promote and disseminate their music. To advertise live
shows, artists often use concert discovery platforms that make it easier for
their fans to track tour dates. In this paper, we ask whether digital traces of
live performances generated on those platforms can be used to understand career
trajectories of artists. First, we present a new dataset we constructed by
cross-referencing data from such platforms. We then demonstrate how this
dataset can be used to mine and predict important career milestones for the
musicians, such as signing by a major music label, or performing at a certain
venue. Finally, we perform a temporal analysis of the bipartite artist-venue
graph, and demonstrate that high centrality on this graph is correlated with
success.


The Geometry and Arithmetic of Kleinian Groups

  In this article we survey and describe various aspects of the geometry and
arithmetic of Kleinian groups - discrete nonelementary groups of isometries of
hyperbolic $3$-space. In particular we make a detailed study of two-generator
groups and discuss the classification of the arithmetic generalised triangle
groups (and their near relatives). This work is mainly based around my
collaborations over the last two decades with Fred Gehring and Colin
Maclachlan, both of whom passed away in 2012. There are many others involved as
well.
  Over the last few decades the theory of Kleinian groups has flourished
because of its intimate connections with low dimensional topology and geometry.
We give little of the general theory and its connections with $3$-manifold
theory here, but focus on two main problems: Siegel's problem of identifying
the minimal covolume hyperbolic lattice and the Margulis constant problem.
These are both "universal constraints" on Kleinian groups -- a feature of
discrete isometry groups in negative curvature and include results such as
J{\o}rgensen's inequality, the higher dimensional version of Hurwitz's $84g-84$
theorem and a number of other things. We will see that big part of the work
necessary to obtain these results is in getting concrete descriptions of
various analytic spaces of two-generator Kleinian groups, somewhat akin to the
Riley slice.


Chandra Survey of Radio-quiet, High-redshift Quasars

  We observed 17 optically-selected, radio-quiet high-redshift quasars with the
Chandra Observatory ACIS, and detected 16 of them. The quasars have redshift
between 3.70 and 6.28 and include the highest redshift quasars known. When
compared to low-redshift quasars observed with ROSAT, these high redshift
quasars are significantly more X-ray quiet. We also find that the X-ray
spectral index of the high redshift objects is flatter than the average at
lower redshift. These trends confirm the predictions of models where the
accretion flow is described by a cold, optically-thick accretion disk
surrounded by a hot, optically thin corona, provided the viscosity parameter
alpha >= 0.02. The high redshift quasars have supermassive black holes with
masses ~10^{10} M_{sun}, and are accreting material at ~0.1 the Eddington
limit. We detect 10 X-ray photons from the z=6.28 quasar SDS 1030+0524, which
may have a Gunn-Peterson trough and be near the redshift of reionization of the
intergalactic medium. The X-ray data place an upper limit on the optical depth
of the intergalactic medium tau(IGM) < 10^6, compared to the lower limit from
the spectrum of Lyalpha and Lybeta, which implies tau(IGM) > 20.


Gauge Dependence in Chern-Simons Theory

  We compute the contribution to the modulus of the one-loop effective action
in pure non-Abelian Chern-Simons theory in an arbitrary covariant gauge. We
find that the results are dependent on both the gauge parameter ($\alpha$) and
the metric required in the gauge fixing. A contribution arises that has not
been previously encountered; it is of the form $(\alpha / \sqrt{p^2}) \epsilon
_{\mu \lambda \nu} p^\lambda$. This is possible as in three dimensions $\alpha$
is dimensionful. A variant of proper time regularization is used to render
these integrals well behaved (although no divergences occur when the
regularization is turned off at the end of the calculation). Since the original
Lagrangian is unaltered in this approach, no symmetries of the classical theory
are explicitly broken and $\epsilon_{\mu \lambda \nu}$ is handled unambiguously
since the system is three dimensional at all stages of the calculation. The
results are shown to be consistent with the so-called Nielsen identities which
predict the explicit gauge parameter dependence using an extension of BRS
symmetry. We demonstrate that this $\alpha$ dependence may potentially
contribute to the vacuum expectation values of products of Wilson loops.


Hadronic contributions to the muon anomalous magnetic moment Workshop.
  $(g-2)_μ$: Quo vadis? Workshop. Mini proceedings

  We present the mini-proceedings of the workshops Hadronic contributions to
the muon anomalous magnetic moment: strategies for improvements of the accuracy
of the theoretical prediction and $(g-2)_{\mu}$: Quo vadis?, both held in Mainz
from April 1$^{\rm rst}$ to 5$^{\rm th}$ and from April 7$^{\rm th}$ to
10$^{\rm th}$, 2014, respectively.


WASP-47: A Hot Jupiter System with Two Additional Planets Discovered by
  K2

  Using new data from the K2 mission, we show that WASP-47, a previously known
hot Jupiter host, also hosts two additional transiting planets: a Neptune-sized
outer planet and a super-Earth inner companion. We measure planetary properties
from the K2 light curve and detect transit timing variations, confirming the
planetary nature of the outer planet. We performed a large number of numerical
simulations to study the dynamical stability of the system and to find the
theoretically expected transit timing variations (TTVs). The theoretically
predicted TTVs are in good agreement with those observed, and we use the TTVs
to determine the masses of two planets, and place a limit on the third. The
WASP-47 planetary system is important because companion planets can both be
inferred by TTVs and are also detected directly through transit observations.
The depth of the hot Jupiter's transits make ground-based TTV measurements
possible, and the brightness of the host star makes it amenable for precise
radial velocity measurements. The system serves as a Rosetta Stone for
understanding TTVs as a planet detection technique.


Evaluating arbitrary strain configurations and doping in graphene with
  Raman spectroscopy

  Raman spectroscopy is a powerful tool for characterizing the local properties
of graphene. Here, we introduce a method for evaluating unknown strain
configurations and simultaneous doping. It relies on separating the effects of
hydrostatic strain (peak shift) and shear strain (peak splitting) on the Raman
spectrum of graphene. The peak shifts from hydrostatic strain and doping are
separated with a correlation analysis of the 2D and G frequencies. This enables
us to obtain the local hydrostatic strain, shear strain and doping without any
assumption on the strain configuration prior to the analysis. We demonstrate
our approach for two model cases: Graphene under uniaxial stress on a PMMA
substrate and graphene suspended on nanostructures that induce an unknown
strain configuration. We measured $\omega_\mathrm{2D}/\omega_\mathrm{G} = 2.21
\pm 0.05$ for pure hydrostatic strain. Raman scattering with circular
corotating polarization is ideal for analyzing strain and doping, especially
for weak strain when the peak splitting by shear strain cannot be resolved.


Reassessment of the basis of cell size control based on analysis of
  cell-to-cell variability

  Fundamental mechanisms governing cell size control and homeostasis are still
poorly understood. The relationship between sizes at division and birth in
single cells is used as a metric to categorize the basis of size homeostasis
[1-3]. Cells dividing at a fixed size regardless of birth size (sizer) are
expected to show a division-birth slope of 0, whereas cells dividing after
growing for a fixed size increment (adder) have an expected slope of +1 [4].
These two theoretical values are, however, rarely experimentally observed. Here
we investigate possible reasons for this discrepancy. Rod-shaped fission yeast
$\it{Schizosaccharomyces}$ $\it{pombe}$ cells divide at a fixed surface area
[5, 6], and exhibit a division-birth slope of 0.23$\pm$0.04, significantly
different from the sizer value of zero. To understand whether fission yeast
uses a mix of sizer and adder control, or whether size sensing is simply
imprecise, we developed a mathematical model of sizer control, including the
relevant sources of variation. Our results support $\it{pure}$ sizer control
and show that deviation from zero slope is exaggerated by measurement of an
inappropriate geometrical quantity (e.g., length instead of area), combined
with cell-to-cell radius variability. The model predicts that mutants with
greater errors in size sensing or septum positioning paradoxically appear to
behave as better sizers. Furthermore, accounting for cell width variability, we
show that pure sizer control can in some circumstances reproduce the apparent
adder behaviour observed in $\it{E. coli}$. These findings demonstrate that
refined analysis of geometric variation can lead to new insights into cell size
control.


STIS Spectral Imagery of the OB Stars in NGC 604: The Most Luminous
  Stars

  We present results using 2-D spectral imagery and photometry obtained with
the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) for the starburst H II region, NGC 604, in
nearby galaxy M33. The spectral imagery was acquired with the Space Telescope
Imaging Spectrograph (STIS) using the MAMA/G140L configuration, spanning
1170-1730 A. From a single 1720 sec STIS exposure, we extracted spectra for 49
stars and derived individual UV spectral types for 40 stars in the crowded
25"x2" stellar field. These stars represent a significant fraction of the
young, luminous O and B stars. Three objects have pronounced He II 1640
emission, the signature of W-R or luminous Of stars. By combining UV fluxes
with WFPC and WFPC2 visual photometry, we derive the extinction curve for NGC
604. We use this curve, the distance for M33, derived UV spectral types, and
HST photometry, to determine positions of these stars in the upper H-R diagram.
The revised O star effective temperature scale (Martins et al.) is essential in
obtaining reliable positions in the log(L*)-log(T(eff)) plane. These stars are
quite young with an age of ~3 Myr. The spectra and photometry indicate three
exceedingly luminous objects. Their inferred locations in the H-R diagram
indicate stellar masses > 120 solar masses. High spatial resolution HST imagery
provides no evidence of multiple stars composing these objects. Still we cannot
eliminate the possibility that they are unresolved multiple stars of lower
mass, possibly W-R stars. Tests demonstrate that the ten most luminous stars
predominantly determine the UV spectral features seen in the total light of NGC
604. We conclude that interpretation of spectral fitting of more distant
starburst galaxies, where individual stars are not resolved, must be done with
extreme care.


Ices in the edge-on disk CRBR 2422.8-3423: Spitzer spectroscopy and
  Monte Carlo radiative transfer modeling

  We present 5.2-37.2 micron spectroscopy of the edge-on circumstellar disk
CRBR 2422.8-3423 obtained using the InfraRed Spectrograph (IRS) of the Spitzer
Space Telescope. The IRS spectrum is combined with ground-based 3-5 micron
spectroscopy to obtain a complete inventory of solid state material present
along the line of sight toward the source. We model the object with a 2D
axisymmetric (effectively 3D) Monte Carlo radiative transfer code. It is found
that the model disk, assuming a standard flaring structure, is too warm to
contain the very large observed column density of pure CO ice, but is possibly
responsible for up to 50% of the water, CO2 and minor ice species. In
particular the 6.85 micron band, tentatively due to NH4+, exhibits a prominent
red wing, indicating a significant contribution from warm ice in the disk. It
is argued that the pure CO ice is located in the dense core Oph-F in front of
the source seen in the submillimeter imaging, with the CO gas in the core
highly depleted. The model is used to predict which circumstances are most
favourable for direct observations of ices in edge-on circumstellar disks. Ice
bands will in general be deepest for inclinations similar to the disk opening
angle, i.e. ~70 degrees. Due to the high optical depths of typical disk
mid-planes, ice absorption bands will often probe warmer ice located in the
upper layers of nearly edge-on disks. The ratios between different ice bands
are found to vary by up to an order of magnitude depending on disk inclination
due to radiative transfer effects caused by the 2D structure of the disk.
Ratios between ice bands of the same species can therefore be used to constrain
the location of the ices in a circumstellar disk. [Abstract abridged]


Modeling Spitzer observations of VV Ser. I. The circumstellar disk of a
  UX Orionis star

  We present mid-infrared Spitzer-IRS spectra of the well-known UX Orionis star
VV Ser. We combine the Spitzer data with interferometric and spectroscopic data
from the literature covering UV to submillimeter wavelengths. The full set of
data are modeled by a two-dimensional axisymmetric Monte Carlo radiative
transfer code. The model is used to test the prediction of (Dullemond et al.
2003) that disks around UX Orionis stars must have a self-shadowed shape, and
that these disks are seen nearly edge-on, looking just over the edge of a
puffed-up inner rim, formed roughly at the dust sublimation radius. We find
that a single, relatively simple model is consistent with all the available
observational constraints spanning 4 orders of magnitude in wavelength and
spatial scales, providing strong support for this interpretation of UX Orionis
stars. The grains in the upper layers of the puffed-up inner rim must be small
(0.01-0.4 micron) to reproduce the colors (R_V ~ 3.6) of the extinction events,
while the shape and strength of the mid-infrared silicate emission features
indicate that grains in the outer disk (> 1-2 AU) are somewhat larger (0.3-3.0
micron). From the model fit, the location of the puffed-up inner rim is
estimated to be at a dust temperature of 1500 K or at 0.7-0.8 AU for small
grains. This is almost twice the rim radius estimated from near-infrared
interferometry. A best fitting model for the inner rim in which large grains in
the disk mid-plane reach to within 0.25 AU of the star, while small grains in
the disk surface create a puffed-up inner rim at ~0.7-0.8 AU, is able to
reproduce all the data, including the near-infrared visibilities. [Abstract
abridged]


The c2d Spitzer spectroscopic survey of ices around low-mass young
  stellar objects II: CO2

  This paper presents Spitzer-IRS spectroscopy of the CO2 15.2 micron bending
mode toward a sample of 50 embedded low-mass stars in nearby star-forming
clouds, taken mostly from the ``Cores to Disks (c2d)'' Legacy program. The
average abundance of solid CO2 relative to water in low-mass protostellar
envelopes is 0.32 +/- 0.02, significantly higher than that found in quiescent
molecular clouds and in massive star forming regions. It is found that a
decomposition of all the observed CO2 bending mode profiles requires a minimum
of five unique components. Roughly 2/3 of the CO2 ice is found in a water-rich
environment, while most of the remaining 1/3 is found in a CO environment.
Ground-based observations of solid CO toward a large subset of the c2d sample
are used to further constrain the CO2:CO component and suggest a model in which
low-density clouds form the CO2:H2O component and higher density clouds form
the CO2:CO ice during and after the freeze-out of gas-phase CO. It is suggested
that the subsequent evolution of the CO2 and CO profiles toward low-mass
protostars, in particular the appearance of the splitting of the CO2 bending
mode due to pure, crystalline CO2, is first caused by distillation of the
CO2:CO component through evaporation of CO due to thermal processing to ~20-30
K in the inner regions of infalling envelopes. The formation of pure CO2 via
segregation from the H2O rich mantle may contribute to the band splitting at
higher levels of thermal processing (>50 K), but is harder to reconcile with
the physical structure of protostellar envelopes around low-luminosity objects.


Intersections of Quadrics, Moment-angle Manifolds and Connected Sums

  The topology of the intersection of two real homogeneous coaxial quadrics was
studied by the second author who showed that its intersection with the unit
sphere is in most cases diffeomorphic to a connected sum of sphere products.
Combining that approach with a recent one (due to Antony Bahri, Martin
Bendersky, Fred Cohen and the first author) we study here the intersections of
k>2 quadrics and we identify very general families of such manifolds that are
diffeomorphic to connected sums of sphere products. These include those
moment-angle manifolds for which the result was conjectured by Frederic Bosio
and Laurent Meersseman. As a byproduct, a simpler and neater proof of the
result for the case k=2 is obtained.
  Two new sections contain results not included in the first version of this
article: Section 2 describes the topological change on the manifolds after the
operations of cutting off a vertex or an edge of the associated polytope, which
can be combined in a special way with the previos results to produce new
infinite families of manifolds that are connected sums of sphere products. In
other cases we get slightly more complicated manifolds: with this we solve
another question by Bosio-Meersseman about the manifold associated to the
truncated cube.
  In Section 3 we use this to show that the known rules for the cohomology
product of a moment-angle manifold have to be drastically modified in the
general situation. We state the modified rule, but leave the details of this
for another publication.
  Section 0 recalls known definitions and results and in section 2.1 some
elementary topological constructions are defined and explored. In the Appendix
we state and prove some results about specific differentiable manifolds, which
are used in sections 1 and 2.


Stellar Imager (SI): developing and testing a predictive dynamo model
  for the Sun by imaging other stars

  The Stellar Imager mission concept is a space-based UV/Optical interferometer
designed to resolve surface magnetic activity and subsurface structure and
flows of a population of Sun-like stars, in order to accelerate the development
and validation of a predictive dynamo model for the Sun and enable accurate
long-term forecasting of solar/stellar magnetic activity.


An Earth-sized Planet in the Habitable Zone of a Cool Star

  The quest for Earth-like planets represents a major focus of current
exoplanet research. While planets that are Earth-sized and smaller have been
detected, these planets reside in orbits that are too close to their host star
to allow liquid water on their surface. We present the detection of
Kepler-186f, a 1.11+\-0.14 Earth radius planet that is the outermost of five
planets - all roughly Earth-sized - that transit a 0.47+\-0.05 Rsun star. The
intensity and spectrum of the star's radiation places Kepler-186f in the
stellar habitable zone, implying that if Kepler-186f has an Earth-like
atmosphere and H2O at its surface, then some of this H2O is likely to be in
liquid form.


Marker-based estimation of heritability in immortal populations

  Heritability is a central parameter in quantitative genetics, both from an
evolutionary and a breeding perspective. For plant traits heritability is
traditionally estimated by comparing within and between genotype variability.
This approach estimates broad-sense heritability, and does not account for
different genetic relatedness. With the availability of high-density markers
there is growing interest in marker based estimates of narrow-sense
heritability, using mixed models in which genetic relatedness is estimated from
genetic markers. Such estimates have received much attention in human genetics
but are rarely reported for plant traits. A major obstacle is that current
methodology and software assume a single phenotypic value per genotype, hence
requiring genotypic means. An alternative that we propose here, is to use mixed
models at individual plant or plot level. Using statistical arguments,
simulations and real data we investigate the feasibility of both approaches,
and how these affect genomic prediction with G-BLUP and genome-wide association
studies. Heritability estimates obtained from genotypic means had very large
standard errors and were sometimes biologically unrealistic. Mixed models at
individual plant or plot level produced more realistic estimates, and for
simulated traits standard errors were up to 13 times smaller. Genomic
prediction was also improved by using these mixed models, with up to a 49%
increase in accuracy. For GWAS on simulated traits, the use of individual plant
data gave almost no increase in power. The new methodology is applicable to any
complex trait where multiple replicates of individual genotypes can be scored.
This includes important agronomic crops, as well as bacteria and fungi.


Multicore fibre technology - the road to multimode photonics

  For the past forty years, optical fibres have found widespread use in
ground-based and space-based instruments. In most applications, these fibres
are used in conjunction with conventional optics to transport light. But
photonics offers a huge range of optical manipulations beyond light transport
that were rarely exploited before 2001. The fundamental obstacle to the broader
use of photonics is the difficulty of achieving photonic action in a multimode
fibre. The first step towards a general solution was the invention of the
photonic lantern (Leon-Saval, Birks & Bland-Hawthorn 2005) and the delivery of
high-efficiency devices (< 1 dB loss) five years on (Noordegraaf et al 2009).
Multicore fibres (MCF), used in conjunction with lanterns, are now enabling an
even bigger leap towards multimode photonics. Until recently, the single-moded
cores in MCFs were not sufficiently uniform to achieve telecom (SMF-28)
performance. Now that high-quality MCFs have been realized, we turn our
attention to printing complex functions (e.g. Bragg gratings for OH
suppression) into their N cores. Our first work in this direction used a
Mach-Zehnder interferometer (near-field phase mask) but this approach was only
adequate for N=7 MCFs as measured by the grating uniformity (Lindley et al
2014). We have now built a Sagnac interferometer that gives a three-fold
increase in the depth of field sufficient to print across N > 127 cores. We
achieved first light this year with our 500mW Sabre FRED laser. These are
sophisticated and complex interferometers. We report on our progress to date
and summarize our first-year goals which include multimode OH suppression
fibres for the Anglo-Australian Telescope/PRAXIS instrument and the Discovery
Channel Telescope/MOHSIS instrument under development at the University of
Maryland.


The GALAH survey: The data reduction pipeline

  We present the data reduction procedures being used by the GALAH survey,
carried out with the HERMES fibre-fed, multi-object spectrograph on the 3.9~m
Anglo-Australian Telescope. GALAH is a unique survey, targeting 1 million stars
brighter than magnitude V=14 at a resolution of 28,000 with a goal to measure
the abundances of 29 elements. Such a large number of high resolution spectra
necessitates the development of a reduction pipeline optimized for speed,
accuracy, and consistency. We outline the design and structure of the
Iraf-based reduction pipeline that we developed, specifically for GALAH, to
produce fully calibrated spectra aimed for subsequent stellar atmospheric
parameter estimation. The pipeline takes advantage of existing Iraf routines
and other readily available software so as to be simple to maintain, testable
and reliable. A radial velocity and stellar atmospheric parameter estimator
code is also presented, which is used for further data analysis and yields a
useful verification of the reduction quality. We have used this estimator to
quantify the data quality of GALAH for fibre cross-talk level ($\lesssim0.5$%)
and scattered light ($\sim5$ counts in a typical 20 minutes exposure),
resolution across the field, sky spectrum properties, wavelength solution
reliability (better than $1$ $\mathrm{km\ s^{-1}}$ accuracy) and radial
velocity precision.


The GALAH Survey: Observational Overview and Gaia DR1 companion

  The Galactic Archaeology with HERMES (GALAH) Survey is a massive
observational project to trace the Milky Way's history of star formation,
chemical enrichment, stellar migration and minor mergers. Using high-resolution
(R$\simeq$28,000) spectra taken with the High Efficiency and Resolution
Multi-Element Spectrograph (HERMES) instrument at the Anglo-Australian
Telescope (AAT), GALAH will determine stellar parameters and abundances of up
to 29 elements for up to one million stars. Selecting targets from a
colour-unbiased catalogue built from 2MASS, APASS and UCAC4 data, we expect to
observe dwarfs at 0.3 to 3 kpc and giants at 1 to 10 kpc. This enables a
thorough local chemical inventory of the Galactic thin and thick disks, and
also captures smaller samples of the bulge and halo. In this paper we present
the plan, process and progress as of early 2016 for GALAH survey observations.
In our first two years of survey observing we have accumulated the largest
high-quality spectroscopic data set at this resolution, over 200,000 stars. We
also present the first public GALAH data catalogue: stellar parameters (Teff,
log(g), [Fe/H], [alpha/Fe]), radial velocity, distance modulus and reddening
for 10680 observations of 9860 Tycho-2 stars that may be included in the first
Gaia data release.


The GALAH Survey: Stellar streams and how stellar velocity distributions
  vary with Galactic longitude, hemisphere and metallicity

  Using GALAH survey data of nearby stars, we look at how structure in the
planar (u,v) velocity distribution depends on metallicity and on viewing
direction within the Galaxy. In nearby stars, with distance d < 1 kpc, the
Hercules stream is most strongly seen in higher metallicity stars [Fe/H] > 0.2.
The Hercules stream peak v value depends on viewed galactic longitude, which we
interpret as due to the gap between the stellar stream and more circular orbits
being associated with a specific angular momentum value of about 1640 km/s kpc.
The association of the gap with a particular angular momentum value supports a
bar resonant model for the Hercules stream.
  Moving groups previously identified in Hipparcos observations are easiest to
see in stars nearer than 250 pc, and their visibility and peak velocities in
the velocity distributions depends on both viewing direction (galactic
longitude and hemisphere) and metallicity. We infer that there is fine
structure in local velocity distributions that varies over distances of a few
hundred pc in the Galaxy.


Constraining the microlensing effect on time delays with new time-delay
  prediction model in $H_{0}$ measurements

  Time-delay strong lensing provides a unique way to directly measure the
Hubble constant ($H_{0}$). The precision of the $H_{0}$ measurement depends on
the uncertainties in the time-delay measurements, the mass distribution of the
main deflector(s), and the mass distribution along the line of sight. Tie and
Kochanek (2018) have proposed a new microlensing effect on time delays based on
differential magnification of the coherent accretion disc variability of the
lensed quasar. If real, this effect could significantly broaden the uncertainty
on the time delay measurements by up to $30\%$ for lens systems such as
PG1115+080, which have relatively short time delays and monitoring over several
different epochs. In this paper we develop a new technique that uses the
time-delay ratios and simulated microlensing maps within a Bayesian framework
in order to limit the allowed combinations of microlensing delays and thus to
lessen the uncertainties due to the proposed effect. We show that, under the
assumption of Tie and Kochanek (2018), the uncertainty on the time-delay
distance ($D_{\Delta t}$, which is proportional to 1/$H_{0}$) of short
time-delay ($\sim18$ days) lens, PG1115+080, increases from $\sim7\%$ to
$\sim10\%$ by simultaneously fitting the three time-delay measurements from the
three different datasets across twenty years, while in the case of long
time-delay ($\sim90$ days) lens, the microlensing effect on time delays is
negligible as the uncertainty on $D_{\Delta t}$ of RXJ1131-1231 only increases
from $\sim2.5\%$ to $\sim2.6\%$.


Post-AGB stars with hot circumstellar dust: binarity of the
  low-amplitude pulsators

  While the first binary post-AGB stars were serendipitously discovered, the
distinct characteristics of their Spectral Energy Distribution (SED) allowed us
to launch a more systematic search for binaries. We selected post-AGB objects
which show a broad dust excess often starting already at H or K, pointing to
the presence of a gravitationally bound dusty disc in the system. We started a
very extensive multi-wavelength study of those systems and here we report on
our radial velocity and photometric monitoring results for six stars of early F
type, which are pulsators of small amplitude. To determine the radial velocity
of low signal-to-noise time-series, we constructed dedicated auto-correlation
masks. The radial velocity variations were subjected to detailed analysis to
differentiate between pulsational variability and variability due to orbital
motion. Finally orbital minimalisation was performed to constrain the orbital
elements. All of the six objects are binaries, with orbital periods ranging
from 120 to 1800 days. Five systems have non-circular orbits. The mass
functions range from 0.004 to 0.57 solar mass and the companions are likely
unevolved objects of (very) low initial mass. We argue that these binaries must
have been subject to severe binary interaction when the primary was a cool
supergiant. Although the origin of the circumstellar disc is not well
understood, the disc is generally believed to be formed during this strong
interaction phase. The eccentric orbits of these highly evolved objects remain
poorly understood. With the measured orbits and mass functions we conclude that
the circumbinary discs seem to have a major impact on the evolution of a
significant fraction of binary systems.


GREAT3 results I: systematic errors in shear estimation and the impact
  of real galaxy morphology

  We present first results from the third GRavitational lEnsing Accuracy
Testing (GREAT3) challenge, the third in a sequence of challenges for testing
methods of inferring weak gravitational lensing shear distortions from
simulated galaxy images. GREAT3 was divided into experiments to test three
specific questions, and included simulated space- and ground-based data with
constant or cosmologically-varying shear fields. The simplest (control)
experiment included parametric galaxies with a realistic distribution of
signal-to-noise, size, and ellipticity, and a complex point spread function
(PSF). The other experiments tested the additional impact of realistic galaxy
morphology, multiple exposure imaging, and the uncertainty about a
spatially-varying PSF; the last two questions will be explored in Paper II. The
24 participating teams competed to estimate lensing shears to within systematic
error tolerances for upcoming Stage-IV dark energy surveys, making 1525
submissions overall. GREAT3 saw considerable variety and innovation in the
types of methods applied. Several teams now meet or exceed the targets in many
of the tests conducted (to within the statistical errors). We conclude that the
presence of realistic galaxy morphology in simulations changes shear
calibration biases by $\sim 1$ per cent for a wide range of methods. Other
effects such as truncation biases due to finite galaxy postage stamps, and the
impact of galaxy type as measured by the S\'{e}rsic index, are quantified for
the first time. Our results generalize previous studies regarding sensitivities
to galaxy size and signal-to-noise, and to PSF properties such as seeing and
defocus. Almost all methods' results support the simple model in which additive
shear biases depend linearly on PSF ellipticity.


Status Update of the MAJORANA DEMONSTRATOR Neutrinoless Double Beta
  Decay Experiment

  Neutrinoless double beta decay searches play a major role in determining
neutrino properties, in particular the Majorana or Dirac nature of the neutrino
and the absolute scale of the neutrino mass. The consequences of these searches
go beyond neutrino physics, with implications for Grand Unification and
leptogenesis. The \textsc{Majorana} Collaboration is assembling a
low-background array of high purity Germanium (HPGe) detectors to search for
neutrinoless double-beta decay in $^{76}$Ge. The \textsc{Majorana
Demonstrator}, which is currently being constructed and commissioned at the
Sanford Underground Research Facility in Lead, South Dakota, will contain 44 kg
(30 kg enriched in $^{76}$Ge) of HPGe detectors. Its primary goal is to
demonstrate the scalability and background required for a tonne-scale Ge
experiment. This is accomplished via a modular design and projected background
of less than 3 cnts/tonne-yr in the region of interest. The experiment is
currently taking data with the first of its enriched detectors.


Companions to APOGEE Stars I: A Milky Way-Spanning Catalog of Stellar
  and Substellar Companion Candidates and their Diverse Hosts

  In its three years of operation, the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS-III)
Apache Point Observatory Galactic Evolution Experiment (APOGEE-1) observed
$>$14,000 stars with enough epochs over a sufficient temporal baseline for the
fitting of Keplerian orbits. We present the custom orbit-fitting pipeline used
to create this catalog, which includes novel quality metrics that account for
the phase and velocity coverage of a fitted Keplerian orbit. With a typical RV
precision of $\sim100-200$ m s$^{-1}$, APOGEE can probe systems with small
separation companions down to a few Jupiter masses. Here we present initial
results from a catalog of 382 of the most compelling stellar and substellar
companion candidates detected by APOGEE, which orbit a variety of host stars in
diverse Galactic environments. Of these, 376 have no previously known small
separation companion. The distribution of companion candidates in this catalog
shows evidence for an extremely truncated brown dwarf (BD) desert with a
paucity of BD companions only for systems with $a < 0.1-0.2$ AU, with no
indication of a desert at larger orbital separation. We propose a few potential
explanations of this result, some which invoke this catalog's many small
separation companion candidates found orbiting evolved stars. Furthermore, 16
BD and planet candidates have been identified around metal-poor ([Fe/H] $<
-0.5$) stars in this catalog, which may challenge the core accretion model for
companions $>10 M_{Jup}$. Finally, we find all types of companions are
ubiquitous throughout the Galactic disk with candidate planetary-mass and BD
companions to distances of $\sim6$ and $\sim16$ kpc, respectively.


The GALAH Survey: Accurate Radial Velocities and Library of Observed
  Stellar Template Spectra

  GALAH is a large-scale magnitude-limited southern stellar spectroscopic
survey. Its second data release (GALAH DR2) provides values of stellar
parameters and abundances of 23 elements for 342,682 stars (Buder et al.). Here
we add a description of the public release of radial velocities with a typical
accuracy of 0.1 km/s for 336,215 of these stars, achievable due to the large
wavelength coverage, high resolving power and good signal to noise ratio of the
observed spectra, but also because convective motions in stellar atmosphere and
gravitational redshift from the star to the observer are taken into account. In
the process we derive medians of observed spectra which are nearly noiseless,
as they are obtained from between 100 and 1116 observed spectra belonging to
the same bin with a width of 50 K in temperature, 0.2 dex in gravity, and 0.1
dex in metallicity. Publicly released 1181 median spectra have a resolving
power of 28,000 and trace the well-populated stellar types with metallicities
between -0.6 and +0.3. Note that radial velocities from GALAH are an excellent
match to the accuracy of velocity components along the sky plane derived by
Gaia for the same stars. The level of accuracy achieved here is adequate for
studies of dynamics within stellar clusters, associations and streams in the
Galaxy. So it may be relevant for studies of the distribution of dark matter.


A Compact Multi-Planet System With A Significantly Misaligned Ultra
  Short Period Planet

  We report the discovery of a compact multi-planet system orbiting the
relatively nearby (78pc) and bright ($K=8.9$) K-star, K2-266 (EPIC248435473).
We identify up to six possible planets orbiting K2-266 with estimated periods
of P$_b$ = 0.66, P$_{.02}$ = 6.1, P$_c$ = 7.8, P$_d$ = 14.7, P$_e$ = 19.5, and
P$_{.06}$ = 56.7 days and radii of R$_P$ = 3.3 R$_{\oplus}$, 0.646
R$_{\oplus}$, 0.705 R$_{\oplus}$, 2.93 R$_{\oplus}$, 2.73 R$_{\oplus}$, and
0.90 R$_{\oplus}$, respectively. We are able to confirm the planetary nature of
two of these planets (d & e) from analyzing their transit timing variations
($m_d= 8.9_{-3.8}^{+5.7} M_\oplus$ and $m_e=14.3_{-5.0}^{+6.4} M_\oplus$),
confidently validate the planetary nature of two other planets (b & c), and
classify the last two as planetary candidates (K2-266.02 & .06). From a
simultaneous fit of all 6 possible planets, we find that K2-266 b's orbit has
an inclination of 75.32$^{\circ}$ while the other five planets have
inclinations of 87-90$^{\circ}$. This observed mutual misalignment may indicate
that K2-266 b formed differently from the other planets in the system. The
brightness of the host star and the relatively large size of the sub-Neptune
sized planets d and e make them well-suited for atmospheric characterization
efforts with facilities like the Hubble Space Telescope and upcoming James Webb
Space Telescope. We also identify an 8.5-day transiting planet candidate
orbiting EPIC248435395, a co-moving companion to K2-266.


The Sloan Digital Sky Survey quasar catalog: ninth data release

  We present the Data Release 9 Quasar (DR9Q) catalog from the Baryon
Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS) of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey III.
The catalog includes all BOSS objects that were targeted as quasar candidates
during the survey, are spectrocopically confirmed as quasars via visual
inspection, have luminosities Mi[z=2]<-20.5 (in a $\Lambda$CDM cosmology with
H0 = 70 km/s/Mpc, $\Omega_{\rm M}$ = 0.3, and $\Omega_{\Lambda}$ = 0.7) and
either display at least one emission line with full width at half maximum
(FWHM) larger than 500 km/s or, if not, have interesting/complex absorption
features. It includes as well, known quasars (mostly from SDSS-I and II) that
were reobserved by BOSS. This catalog contains 87,822 quasars (78,086 are new
discoveries) detected over 3,275 deg$^{2}$ with robust identification and
redshift measured by a combination of principal component eigenspectra newly
derived from a training set of 8,632 spectra from SDSS-DR7. The number of
quasars with $z>2.15$ (61,931) is ~2.8 times larger than the number of z>2.15
quasars previously known. Redshifts and FWHMs are provided for the strongest
emission lines (CIV, CIII], MgII). The catalog identifies 7,533 broad
absorption line quasars and gives their characteristics. For each object the
catalog presents five-band (u,g,r,i,z) CCD-based photometry with typical
accuracy of 0.03 mag, and information on the morphology and selection method.
The catalog also contains X-ray, ultraviolet, near-infrared, and radio emission
properties of the quasars, when available, from other large-area surveys.


STROBE-X: X-ray Timing and Spectroscopy on Dynamical Timescales from
  Microseconds to Years

  We present the Spectroscopic Time-Resolving Observatory for Broadband Energy
X-rays (STROBE-X), a probe-class mission concept selected for study by NASA. It
combines huge collecting area, high throughput, broad energy coverage, and
excellent spectral and temporal resolution in a single facility. STROBE-X
offers an enormous increase in sensitivity for X-ray spectral timing, extending
these techniques to extragalactic targets for the first time. It is also an
agile mission capable of rapid response to transient events, making it an
essential X-ray partner facility in the era of time-domain, multi-wavelength,
and multi-messenger astronomy. Optimized for study of the most extreme
conditions found in the Universe, its key science objectives include: (1)
Robustly measuring mass and spin and mapping inner accretion flows across the
black hole mass spectrum, from compact stars to intermediate-mass objects to
active galactic nuclei. (2) Mapping out the full mass-radius relation of
neutron stars using an ensemble of nearly two dozen rotation-powered pulsars
and accreting neutron stars, and hence measuring the equation of state for
ultradense matter over a much wider range of densities than explored by NICER.
(3) Identifying and studying X-ray counterparts (in the post-Swift era) for
multiwavelength and multi-messenger transients in the dynamic sky through
cross-correlation with gravitational wave interferometers, neutrino
observatories, and high-cadence time-domain surveys in other electromagnetic
bands. (4) Continuously surveying the dynamic X-ray sky with a large duty cycle
and high time resolution to characterize the behavior of X-ray sources over an
unprecedentedly vast range of time scales. STROBE-X's formidable capabilities
will also enable a broad portfolio of additional science.


Catching Element Formation In The Act

  Gamma-ray astronomy explores the most energetic photons in nature to address
some of the most pressing puzzles in contemporary astrophysics. It encompasses
a wide range of objects and phenomena: stars, supernovae, novae, neutron stars,
stellar-mass black holes, nucleosynthesis, the interstellar medium, cosmic rays
and relativistic-particle acceleration, and the evolution of galaxies. MeV
gamma-rays provide a unique probe of nuclear processes in astronomy, directly
measuring radioactive decay, nuclear de-excitation, and positron annihilation.
The substantial information carried by gamma-ray photons allows us to see
deeper into these objects, the bulk of the power is often emitted at gamma-ray
energies, and radioactivity provides a natural physical clock that adds unique
information. New science will be driven by time-domain population studies at
gamma-ray energies. This science is enabled by next-generation gamma-ray
instruments with one to two orders of magnitude better sensitivity, larger sky
coverage, and faster cadence than all previous gamma-ray instruments. This
transformative capability permits: (a) the accurate identification of the
gamma-ray emitting objects and correlations with observations taken at other
wavelengths and with other messengers; (b) construction of new gamma-ray maps
of the Milky Way and other nearby galaxies where extended regions are
distinguished from point sources; and (c) considerable serendipitous science of
scarce events -- nearby neutron star mergers, for example. Advances in
technology push the performance of new gamma-ray instruments to address a wide
set of astrophysical questions.


An improved limit to the diffuse flux of ultra-high energy neutrinos
  from the Pierre Auger Observatory

  Neutrinos in the cosmic ray flux with energies near 1 EeV and above are
detectable with the Surface Detector array of the Pierre Auger Observatory. We
report here on searches through Auger data from 1 January 2004 until 20 June
2013. No neutrino candidates were found, yielding a limit to the diffuse flux
of ultra-high energy neutrinos that challenges the Waxman-Bahcall bound
predictions. Neutrino identification is attempted using the broad
time-structure of the signals expected in the SD stations, and is efficiently
done for neutrinos of all flavors interacting in the atmosphere at large zenith
angles, as well as for "Earth-skimming" neutrino interactions in the case of
tau neutrinos. In this paper the searches for downward-going neutrinos in the
zenith angle bins $60^\circ-75^\circ$ and $75^\circ-90^\circ$ as well as for
upward-going neutrinos, are combined to give a single limit. The $90\%$ C.L.
single-flavor limit to the diffuse flux of ultra-high energy neutrinos with an
$E^{-2}$ spectrum in the energy range $1.0 \times 10^{17}$ eV - $2.5 \times
10^{19}$ eV is $E_\nu^2 dN_\nu/dE_\nu < 6.4 \times 10^{-9}~ {\rm GeV~ cm^{-2}~
s^{-1}~ sr^{-1}}$.


Measurement of the cosmic ray spectrum above $4{\times}10^{18}$ eV using
  inclined events detected with the Pierre Auger Observatory

  A measurement of the cosmic-ray spectrum for energies exceeding
$4{\times}10^{18}$ eV is presented, which is based on the analysis of showers
with zenith angles greater than $60^{\circ}$ detected with the Pierre Auger
Observatory between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2013. The measured spectrum
confirms a flux suppression at the highest energies. Above $5.3{\times}10^{18}$
eV, the "ankle", the flux can be described by a power law $E^{-\gamma}$ with
index $\gamma=2.70 \pm 0.02 \,\text{(stat)} \pm 0.1\,\text{(sys)}$ followed by
a smooth suppression region. For the energy ($E_\text{s}$) at which the
spectral flux has fallen to one-half of its extrapolated value in the absence
of suppression, we find
$E_\text{s}=(5.12\pm0.25\,\text{(stat)}^{+1.0}_{-1.2}\,\text{(sys)}){\times}10^{19}$
eV.


The Pierre Auger Observatory: Contributions to the 33rd International
  Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC 2013)

  Contributions of the Pierre Auger Collaboration to the 33rd International
Cosmic Ray Conference, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, July 2013


Energy Estimation of Cosmic Rays with the Engineering Radio Array of the
  Pierre Auger Observatory

  The Auger Engineering Radio Array (AERA) is part of the Pierre Auger
Observatory and is used to detect the radio emission of cosmic-ray air showers.
These observations are compared to the data of the surface detector stations of
the Observatory, which provide well-calibrated information on the cosmic-ray
energies and arrival directions. The response of the radio stations in the 30
to 80 MHz regime has been thoroughly calibrated to enable the reconstruction of
the incoming electric field. For the latter, the energy deposit per area is
determined from the radio pulses at each observer position and is interpolated
using a two-dimensional function that takes into account signal asymmetries due
to interference between the geomagnetic and charge-excess emission components.
The spatial integral over the signal distribution gives a direct measurement of
the energy transferred from the primary cosmic ray into radio emission in the
AERA frequency range. We measure 15.8 MeV of radiation energy for a 1 EeV air
shower arriving perpendicularly to the geomagnetic field. This radiation energy
-- corrected for geometrical effects -- is used as a cosmic-ray energy
estimator. Performing an absolute energy calibration against the
surface-detector information, we observe that this radio-energy estimator
scales quadratically with the cosmic-ray energy as expected for coherent
emission. We find an energy resolution of the radio reconstruction of 22% for
the data set and 17% for a high-quality subset containing only events with at
least five radio stations with signal.


Measurement of the Radiation Energy in the Radio Signal of Extensive Air
  Showers as a Universal Estimator of Cosmic-Ray Energy

  We measure the energy emitted by extensive air showers in the form of radio
emission in the frequency range from 30 to 80 MHz. Exploiting the accurate
energy scale of the Pierre Auger Observatory, we obtain a radiation energy of
15.8 \pm 0.7 (stat) \pm 6.7 (sys) MeV for cosmic rays with an energy of 1 EeV
arriving perpendicularly to a geomagnetic field of 0.24 G, scaling
quadratically with the cosmic-ray energy. A comparison with predictions from
state-of-the-art first-principle calculations shows agreement with our
measurement. The radiation energy provides direct access to the calorimetric
energy in the electromagnetic cascade of extensive air showers. Comparison with
our result thus allows the direct calibration of any cosmic-ray radio detector
against the well-established energy scale of the Pierre Auger Observatory.


The Eleventh and Twelfth Data Releases of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey:
  Final Data from SDSS-III

  The third generation of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS-III) took data
from 2008 to 2014 using the original SDSS wide-field imager, the original and
an upgraded multi-object fiber-fed optical spectrograph, a new near-infrared
high-resolution spectrograph, and a novel optical interferometer. All the data
from SDSS-III are now made public. In particular, this paper describes Data
Release 11 (DR11) including all data acquired through 2013 July, and Data
Release 12 (DR12) adding data acquired through 2014 July (including all data
included in previous data releases), marking the end of SDSS-III observing.
Relative to our previous public release (DR10), DR12 adds one million new
spectra of galaxies and quasars from the Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic
Survey (BOSS) over an additional 3000 sq. deg of sky, more than triples the
number of H-band spectra of stars as part of the Apache Point Observatory (APO)
Galactic Evolution Experiment (APOGEE), and includes repeated accurate radial
velocity measurements of 5500 stars from the Multi-Object APO Radial Velocity
Exoplanet Large-area Survey (MARVELS). The APOGEE outputs now include measured
abundances of 15 different elements for each star. In total, SDSS-III added
2350 sq. deg of ugriz imaging; 155,520 spectra of 138,099 stars as part of the
Sloan Exploration of Galactic Understanding and Evolution 2 (SEGUE-2) survey;
2,497,484 BOSS spectra of 1,372,737 galaxies, 294,512 quasars, and 247,216
stars over 9376 sq. deg; 618,080 APOGEE spectra of 156,593 stars; and 197,040
MARVELS spectra of 5,513 stars. Since its first light in 1998, SDSS has imaged
over 1/3 of the Celestial sphere in five bands and obtained over five million
astronomical spectra.


