Decomposing edge-colored graphs under color degree constraints

  For an edge-colored graph $G$, the minimum color degree of $G$ means the
minimum number of colors on edges which are adjacent to each vertex of $G$. We
prove that if $G$ is an edge-colored graph with minimum color degree at least
$5$ then $V(G)$ can be partitioned into two parts such that each part induces a
subgraph with minimum color degree at least $2$. We show this theorem by
proving a much stronger form. Moreover, we point out an important relationship
between our theorem and Bermond-Thomassen's conjecture in digraphs.


Signature Design of Sparsely Spread CDMA Based on Superposed
  Constellation Distance Analysis

  Sparsely spread code division multiple access (SCDMA) is a non-orthogonal
superposition coding scheme that permits a base station simultaneously
communicates with multiple users over a common channel. The detection
performance of an SCDMA system is mainly determined by its signature matrix,
which should be sparse to guarantee large Euclidean distance for the equivalent
signal constellation after spreading and superposition. Good signature matrices
that perform well under both belief prorogation and the maximum likelihood
detections are designed. The proposed design applies to several similar
well-documented schemes, including trellis code multiple access (TCMA), low
density spreading, and superposition modulation systems.


(2,1)-Total labeling of planar graphs with large maximum degree

  The ($d$,1)-total labelling of graphs was introduced by Havet and Yu. In this
paper, we prove that, for planar graph $G$ with maximum degree $\Delta\geq12$
and $d=2$, the (2,1)-total labelling number $\lambda_2^T(G)$ is at most
$\Delta+2$.


Antimagic orientations of even regular graphs

  A labeling of a digraph $D$ with $m$ arcs is a bijection from the set of arcs
of $D$ to $\{1, \ldots, m\}$. A labeling of $D$ is antimagic if no two vertices
in $D$ have the same vertex-sum, where the vertex-sum of a vertex $u\in V(D)$
for a labeling is the sum of labels of all arcs entering $u$ minus the sum of
labels of all arcs leaving $u$. Motivated by the conjecture of Hartsfield and
Ringel from 1990 on antimagic labelings of graphs, Hefetz, M\"utze, and
Schwartz [On antimagic directed graphs, J Graph Theory 64 (2010) 219--232]
initiated the study of antimagic labelings of digraphs, and conjectured that
every connected graph admits an antimagic orientation, where an orientation $D$
of a graph $G$ is antimagic if $D$ has an antimagic labeling. It remained
unknown whether every disjoint union of cycles admits an antimagic orientation.
In this paper, we first answer this question in the positive by proving that
every $2$-regular graph has an antimagic orientation. We then show that for any
integer $d\ge2$, every connected, $2d$-regular graph has an antimagic
orientation. Our technique is new.


On splitting digraphs

  In 1995, Stiebitz asked the following question: For any positive integers
$s,t$, is there a finite integer $f(s,t)$ such that every digraph $D$ with
minimum out-degree at least $f(s,t)$ admits a bipartition $(A, B)$ such that
$A$ induces a subdigraph with minimum out-degree at least $s$ and $B$ induces a
subdigraph with minimum out-degree at least $t$? We give an affirmative answer
for tournaments, multipartite tournaments, and digraphs with bounded maximum
in-degrees. In particular, we show that for every $\epsilon$ with
$0<\epsilon<1/2$, there exists an integer $\delta_0$ such that every tournament
with minimum out-degree at least $\delta_0$ admits a bisection $(A, B)$, so
that each vertex has at least $(1/2-\epsilon)$ of its out-neighbors in $A$, and
in $B$ as well.


Two New Gradient Precondition Schemes for Full Waveform Inversion

  We propose two preconditioned gradient direction for full waveform inversion
(FWI). The first one is using time integral wavefields. The Least square
problem is formulated as the time integral residual wavefields, which can
partially resolve the effect of high-passed filter in the traditional gradient
formula; the convergence rate is greatly accelerated. The other one is
localized offset Hessian inspired by the generalized imaging condition, which
provides another redundancy in the Hessian. We compare the traditional
conjugate gradient scaled by the shot illumination and localized offset Hessian
(actually, only diagonal part is considered here), and contrast their
performance for waveform inversion. The results demonstrate the localized
offset Hessian (diagonal part) can provide much more information in the
subsurface, and is preferred to the layer-strip inversion.


Dependence of transport on adatom location for armchair-edge graphene
  nanoribbons

  We study the transport property for armchair-edge graphene nanoribbons
(AGNRs) with an adatom coupling to a semi-infinite quantum wire. Using the
nonequilibrium Green's function approach with tight-binding approximation, we
demonstrate that the tunneling current through the system is sensitively
dependent on both the AGNR width and adatom location. Interestingly, when the
adatom locates onto a carbon atom in the 3$j$th chain from the edge of a
metallic AGNR, the system shows a transmission gap accompanied by a threshold
voltage in $I-V$ curve like a semiconducting AGNR. This effect may be useful in
scanning tunneling microscopy experimental characterization on graphene
samples.


A Note on Inexact Condition for Cubic Regularized Newton's Method

  This note considers the inexact cubic-regularized Newton's method (CR), which
has been shown in \cite{Cartis2011a} to achieve the same order-level
convergence rate to a secondary stationary point as the exact CR
\citep{Nesterov2006}. However, the inexactness condition in \cite{Cartis2011a}
is not implementable due to its dependence on future iterates variable. This
note fixes such an issue by proving the same convergence rate for nonconvex
optimization under an inexact adaptive condition that depends on only the
current iterate. Our proof controls the sufficient decrease of the function
value over the total iterations rather than each iteration as used in the
previous studies, which can be of independent interest in other contexts.


Mode-matching metasurfaces: coherent reconstruction and multiplexing of
  surface waves

  Metasurfaces are promising two-dimensional metamaterials that are engineered
to provide unique properties or functionalities absent in naturally occurring
homogeneous surfaces. Here, we report a type of metasurface for tailored
reconstruction of surface plasmon waves from light. The design is generic in a
way that one can selectively generate different surface plasmon waves through
simple variation of the wavelength or the polarization state of incident light.
The ultra-thin metasurface demonstrated in this paper provides a versatile
interface between the conventional free-space optics and a two-dimensional
platform such as surface plasmonics.


Density of monochromatic infinite paths

  For any subset $A \subseteq \mathbb{N}$, we define its upper density to be
$\limsup_{ n \rightarrow \infty } |A \cap \{ 1, \dotsc, n \}| / n$. We prove
that every $2$-edge-colouring of the complete graph on $\mathbb{N}$ contains a
monochromatic infinite path, whose vertex set has upper density at least $(9 +
\sqrt{17})/16 \approx 0.82019$. This improves on results of Erd\H{o}s and
Galvin, and of DeBiasio and McKenney.


Rainbow matchings in properly-colored hypergraphs

  A hypergraph $H$ is properly colored if for every vertex $v\in V(H)$, all the
edges incident to $v$ have distinct colors. In this paper, we show that if
$H_{1}$, \cdots, $H_{s}$ are properly-colored $k$-uniform hypergraphs on $n$
vertices, where $n\geq3k^{2}s$, and $e(H_{i})>{{n}\choose {k}}-{{n-s+1}\choose
{k}}$, then there exists a rainbow matching of size $s$, containing one edge
from each $H_i$. This generalizes some previous results on the Erd\H{o}s
Matching Conjecture.


Interfacial bound exciton state in a hybrid structure of monolayer WS2
  and InGaN quantum dots

  Van der Waals heterostructures usually formed using atomic thin transition
metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) with a direct bandgap in the near-infrared to the
visible range are promising candidates for low-dimensional optoelectronic
applications. The interlayer interaction or coupling between two-dimensional
(2D) layer and the substrate or between adjacent 2D layers plays an important
role in modifying properties of the individual 2D material or device
performances through Coulomb interaction or forming interlayer excitons. Here,
we report the realization of quasi zero-dimensional (0D) photon emission of WS2
in a coupled hybrid structure of monolayer WS2 and InGaN quantum dots (QDs). An
interfacial bound exciton, i.e., coupling between excitons in WS2 and the
electrons in QDs has been identified. The emission of this interfacial bound
exciton inherits the 0-D confinement of QDs as well as the spin-valley physics
of excitons in monolayer WS2. The effective coupling between 2D materials and
conventional semiconductors observed in this work provides an effective way to
realize 0D emission of 2D materials and opens the potential of compact on-chip
integration of valleytronics and conventional electronics/optoelectronics.


Long properly colored cycles in edge colored complete graphs

  Let $K_{n}^{c}$ denote a complete graph on $n$ vertices whose edges are
colored in an arbitrary way. Let $\Delta^{\mathrm{mon}} (K_{n}^{c})$ denote the
maximum number of edges of the same color incident with a vertex of
$K_{n}^{c}$. A properly colored cycle (path) in $K_{n}^{c}$ is a cycle (path)
in which adjacent edges have distinct colors. B. Bollob\'{a}s and P. Erd\"{o}s
(1976) proposed the following conjecture: if $\Delta^{\mathrm{mon}}
(K_{n}^{c})<\lfloor \frac{n}{2} \rfloor$, then $K_{n}^{c}$ contains a properly
colored Hamiltonian cycle. Li, Wang and Zhou proved that if
$\Delta^{\mathrm{mon}} (K_{n}^{c})< \lfloor \frac{n}{2} \rfloor$, then
$K_{n}^{c}$ contains a properly colored cycle of length at least $\lceil
\frac{n+2}{3}\rceil+1$. In this paper, we improve the bound to $\lceil
\frac{n}{2}\rceil + 2$.


Tracking Completion

  A fundamental component of modern trackers is an online learned tracking
model, which is typically modeled either globally or locally. The two kinds of
models perform differently in terms of effectiveness and robustness under
different challenging situations. This work exploits the advantages of both
models. A subspace model, from a global perspective, is learned from previously
obtained targets via rank-minimization to address the tracking, and a
pixel-level local observation is leveraged si- multaneously, from a local point
of view, to augment the subspace model. A matrix completion method is employed
to integrate the two models. Unlike previous tracking methods, which locate the
target among all fully observed target candidates, the proposed approach first
estimates an expected target via the matrix completion through partially
observed target candidates, and then, identifies the target according to the
estimation accuracy with respect to the target candidates. Specifically, the
tracking is formulated as a problem of target appearance estimation. Extensive
experiments on various challenging video sequences verify the effectiveness of
the proposed approach and demonstrate that the proposed tracker outperforms
other popular state-of-the-art trackers.


Real-Time Visual Tracking: Promoting the Robustness of Correlation
  Filter Learning

  Correlation filtering based tracking model has received lots of attention and
achieved great success in real-time tracking, however, the lost function in
current correlation filtering paradigm could not reliably response to the
appearance changes caused by occlusion and illumination variations. This study
intends to promote the robustness of the correlation filter learning. By
exploiting the anisotropy of the filter response, three sparsity related loss
functions are proposed to alleviate the overfitting issue of previous methods
and improve the overall tracking performance. As a result, three real-time
trackers are implemented. Extensive experiments in various challenging
situations demonstrate that the robustness of the learned correlation filter
has been greatly improved via the designed loss functions. In addition, the
study reveals, from an experimental perspective, how different loss functions
essentially influence the tracking performance. An important conclusion is that
the sensitivity of the peak values of the filter in successive frames is
consistent with the tracking performance. This is a useful reference criterion
in designing a robust correlation filter for visual tracking.


Robust Structure from Motion in the Presence of Outliers and Missing
  Data

  Structure from motion is an import theme in computer vision. Although great
progress has been made both in theory and applications, most of the algorithms
only work for static scenes and rigid objects. In recent years, structure and
motion recovery of non-rigid objects and dynamic scenes have received a lot of
attention. In this paper, the state-of-the-art techniques for structure and
motion factorization of non-rigid objects are reviewed and discussed. First, an
introduction of the structure from motion problem is presented, followed by a
general formulation of non-rigid structure from motion. Second, an augmented
affined factorization framework, by using homogeneous representation, is
presented to solve the registration issue in the presence of outlying and
missing data. Third, based on the observation that the reprojection residuals
of outliers are significantly larger than those of inliers, a robust
factorization strategy with outlier rejection is proposed by means of the
reprojection residuals, followed by some comparative experimental evaluations.
Finally, some future research topics in non-rigid structure from motion are
discussed.


Stochastic Variance-Reduced Cubic Regularization for Nonconvex
  Optimization

  Cubic regularization (CR) is an optimization method with emerging popularity
due to its capability to escape saddle points and converge to second-order
stationary solutions for nonconvex optimization. However, CR encounters a high
sample complexity issue for finite-sum problems with a large data size.
%Various inexact variants of CR have been proposed to improve the sample
complexity. In this paper, we propose a stochastic variance-reduced
cubic-regularization (SVRC) method under random sampling, and study its
convergence guarantee as well as sample complexity. We show that the iteration
complexity of SVRC for achieving a second-order stationary solution within
$\epsilon$ accuracy is $O(\epsilon^{-3/2})$, which matches the state-of-art
result on CR types of methods. Moreover, our proposed variance reduction scheme
significantly reduces the per-iteration sample complexity. The resulting total
Hessian sample complexity of our SVRC is ${\Oc}(N^{2/3} \epsilon^{-3/2})$,
which outperforms the state-of-art result by a factor of $O(N^{2/15})$. We also
study our SVRC under random sampling without replacement scheme, which yields a
lower per-iteration sample complexity, and hence justifies its practical
applicability.


An Efficient Approach for Polyps Detection in Endoscopic Videos Based on
  Faster R-CNN

  Polyp has long been considered as one of the major etiologies to colorectal
cancer which is a fatal disease around the world, thus early detection and
recognition of polyps plays a crucial role in clinical routines. Accurate
diagnoses of polyps through endoscopes operated by physicians becomes a
challenging task not only due to the varying expertise of physicians, but also
the inherent nature of endoscopic inspections. To facilitate this process,
computer-aid techniques that emphasize fully-conventional image processing and
novel machine learning enhanced approaches have been dedicatedly designed for
polyp detection in endoscopic videos or images. Among all proposed algorithms,
deep learning based methods take the lead in terms of multiple metrics in
evolutions for algorithmic performance. In this work, a highly effective model,
namely the faster region-based convolutional neural network (Faster R-CNN) is
implemented for polyp detection. In comparison with the reported results of the
state-of-the-art approaches on polyps detection, extensive experiments
demonstrate that the Faster R-CNN achieves very competing results, and it is an
efficient approach for clinical practice.


MDCN: Multi-Scale, Deep Inception Convolutional Neural Networks for
  Efficient Object Detection

  Object detection in challenging situations such as scale variation,
occlusion, and truncation depends not only on feature details but also on
contextual information. Most previous networks emphasize too much on detailed
feature extraction through deeper and wider networks, which may enhance the
accuracy of object detection to certain extent. However, the feature details
are easily being changed or washed out after passing through complicated
filtering structures. To better handle these challenges, the paper proposes a
novel framework, multi-scale, deep inception convolutional neural network
(MDCN), which focuses on wider and broader object regions by activating feature
maps produced in the deep part of the network. Instead of incepting inner
layers in the shallow part of the network, multi-scale inceptions are
introduced in the deep layers. The proposed framework integrates the contextual
information into the learning process through a single-shot network structure.
It is computational efficient and avoids the hard training problem of previous
macro feature extraction network designed for shallow layers. Extensive
experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and superior performance of MDCN over
the state-of-the-art models.


Cubic Regularization with Momentum for Nonconvex Optimization

  Momentum is a popular technique to accelerate the convergence in practical
training, and its impact on convergence guarantee has been well-studied for
first-order algorithms. However, such a successful acceleration technique has
not yet been proposed for second-order algorithms in nonconvex optimization.In
this paper, we apply the momentum scheme to cubic regularized (CR) Newton's
method and explore the potential for acceleration. Our numerical experiments on
various nonconvex optimization problems demonstrate that the momentum scheme
can substantially facilitate the convergence of cubic regularization, and
perform even better than the Nesterov's acceleration scheme for CR.
Theoretically, we prove that CR under momentum achieves the best possible
convergence rate to a second-order stationary point for nonconvex optimization.
Moreover, we study the proposed algorithm for solving problems satisfying an
error bound condition and establish a local quadratic convergence rate. Then,
particularly for finite-sum problems, we show that the proposed algorithm can
allow computational inexactness that reduces the overall sample complexity
without degrading the convergence rate.


Natural Scene Recognition Based on Superpixels and Deep Boltzmann
  Machines

  The Deep Boltzmann Machines (DBM) is a state-of-the-art unsupervised learning
model, which has been successfully applied to handwritten digit recognition
and, as well as object recognition. However, the DBM is limited in scene
recognition due to the fact that natural scene images are usually very large.
In this paper, an efficient scene recognition approach is proposed based on
superpixels and the DBMs. First, a simple linear iterative clustering (SLIC)
algorithm is employed to generate superpixels of input images, where each
superpixel is regarded as an input of a learning model. Then, a two-layer DBM
model is constructed by stacking two restricted Boltzmann machines (RBMs), and
a greedy layer-wise algorithm is applied to train the DBM model. Finally, a
softmax regression is utilized to categorize scene images. The proposed
technique can effectively reduce the computational complexity and enhance the
performance for large natural image recognition. The approach is verified and
evaluated by extensive experiments, including the fifteen-scene categories
dataset the UIUC eight-sports dataset, and the SIFT flow dataset, are used to
evaluate the proposed method. The experimental results show that the proposed
approach outperforms other state-of-the-art methods in terms of recognition
rate.


Vision-based Real-Time Aerial Object Localization and Tracking for UAV
  Sensing System

  The paper focuses on the problem of vision-based obstacle detection and
tracking for unmanned aerial vehicle navigation. A real-time object
localization and tracking strategy from monocular image sequences is developed
by effectively integrating the object detection and tracking into a dynamic
Kalman model. At the detection stage, the object of interest is automatically
detected and localized from a saliency map computed via the image background
connectivity cue at each frame; at the tracking stage, a Kalman filter is
employed to provide a coarse prediction of the object state, which is further
refined via a local detector incorporating the saliency map and the temporal
information between two consecutive frames. Compared to existing methods, the
proposed approach does not require any manual initialization for tracking, runs
much faster than the state-of-the-art trackers of its kind, and achieves
competitive tracking performance on a large number of image sequences.
Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and superior performance of
the proposed approach.


BPGrad: Towards Global Optimality in Deep Learning via Branch and
  Pruning

  Understanding the global optimality in deep learning (DL) has been attracting
more and more attention recently. Conventional DL solvers, however, have not
been developed intentionally to seek for such global optimality. In this paper
we propose a novel approximation algorithm, BPGrad, towards optimizing deep
models globally via branch and pruning. Our BPGrad algorithm is based on the
assumption of Lipschitz continuity in DL, and as a result it can adaptively
determine the step size for current gradient given the history of previous
updates, wherein theoretically no smaller steps can achieve the global
optimality. We prove that, by repeating such branch-and-pruning procedure, we
can locate the global optimality within finite iterations. Empirically an
efficient solver based on BPGrad for DL is proposed as well, and it outperforms
conventional DL solvers such as Adagrad, Adadelta, RMSProp, and Adam in the
tasks of object recognition, detection, and segmentation.


Strong list-chromatic index of subcubic graphs

  A strong $k$-edge-coloring of a graph G is an edge-coloring with $k$ colors
in which every color class is an induced matching. The strong chromatic index
of $G$, denoted by $\chi'_{s}(G)$, is the minimum $k$ for which $G$ has a
strong $k$-edge-coloring. In 1985, Erd\H{o}s and Ne\v{s}et\v{r}il conjectured
that $\chi'_{s}(G)\leq\frac{5}{4}\Delta(G)^2$, where $\Delta(G)$ is the maximum
degree of $G$. When $G$ is a graph with maximum degree at most 3, the
conjecture was verified independently by Andersen and Hor\'{a}k, Qing, and
Trotter. In this paper, we consider the list version of strong edge-coloring.
In particular, we show that every subcubic graph has strong list-chromatic
index at most 11 and every planar subcubic graph has strong list-chromatic
index at most 10.


Optically Reconfigurable Photonic Devices

  Optoelectronic components with adjustable parameters, from
variable-focal-length lenses to spectral filters that can change functionality
upon stimulation, have enormous technological importance. Tuning of such
components is conventionally achieved by either micro- or nano-mechanical
actuation of their consitutive parts, stretching or application of thermal
stimuli. Here we report a new dielectric metasurface platform for
reconfigurable optical components that are created with light in a non-volatile
and reversible fashion. Such components are written, erased and re-written as
two-dimensional binary or grey-scale patterns into a nanoscale film of phase
change material by inducing a refractive-index-changing phase-transition with
tailored trains of femtosecond pulses. We combine
germanium-antimony-tellurium-based films optimized for high-optical-contrast
ovonic switching with a sub-wavelength-resolution optical writing process to
demonstrate technologically relevant devices: visible-range reconfigurable
bi-chromatic and multi-focus Fresnel zone-plates, a super-oscillatory lens with
sub-wavelength focus, a grey-scale hologram and a dielectric metamaterial with
on-demand reflcetion and transmission resonances.


First Integrated Implosion Experiment of Three-Axis Cylindrical Hohlraum
  at the SGIII Laser Facility

  The first integrated implosion experiment of three-axis cylindrical hohlraum
(TACH) was accomplished at the SGIII laser facility. 24 laser beams of the
SGIII laser facility were carefully chosen and quasi-symmetrically injected
into the TACH, in which a highly symmetric radiation filed was generated with a
peak radiation temperature of ~190eV. Driven by the radiation field, the
neutron yield of a deuterium gas filled capsule reached ~1e9, and the
corresponding yield over clean (YOC) was ~40% for a convergence ratio (Cr) of
~17. The X-ray self-emission image of imploded capsule cores was nearly round,
and the backscatter fraction of laser beams was less than 1.25%. This
experiment preliminarily demonstrated the major performance of TACH, such as
the robustness of symmetry, and a laser plasma instability (LPI) behavior
similar to that of the outer ring of traditional cylindrical hohlraum.


First Investigation on the Radiation Field of the Gas-Filled Three-Axis
  Cylindrical Hohlraum

  A novel ignition hohlraum named three-axis cylindrical hohlraum (TACH) is
designed for indirect-drive inertial confinement fusion. TACH is a kind of 6
laser entrance holes (LEHs) hohlraum, which is orthogonally jointed of three
cylindrical hohlraums. The first experiment on the radiation field of TACH was
performed on Shenguang III laser facility. 24 laser beams were elected and
injected into 6 LEHs quasi-symmetrically. Total laser energy was about 59 kJ,
and the peak radiation temperature reached about 192 eV. Radiation temperature
and pinhole images in gas-filled hohlraum are largely identical but with minor
differences with those in vacuum hohlraum. All laser energy can be totally
delivered into hohlraum in 3 ns duration even without filled gas in the
hohlraum of 1.4 mm diameter. Plasma filling cannot be obviously suppressed even
with 0.5 atm pressure gas in the small hohlraum. Backscattering fractions of
vacuum hohlraum and gas-filled hohlraum are both lower than 2%. Experimental
study of this new kind of hohlraum can provide guidance for future target
design and implosion experiment.


List version of ($p$,1)-total labellings

  The ($p$,1)-total number $\lambda_p^T(G)$ of a graph $G$ is the width of the
smallest range of integers that suffices to label the vertices and the edges of
$G$ such that no two adjacent vertices have the same label, no two incident
edges have the same label and the difference between the labels of a vertex and
its incident edges is at least $p$. In this paper we consider the list version.
Let $L(x)$ be a list of possible colors for all $x\in V(G)\cup E(G)$. Define
$C_{p,1}^T(G)$ to be the smallest integer $k$ such that for every list
assignment with $|L(x)|=k$ for all $x\in V(G)\cup E(G)$, $G$ has a
($p$,1)-total labelling $c$ such that $c(x)\in L(x)$ for all $x\in V(G)\cup
E(G)$. We call $C_{p,1}^T(G)$ the ($p$,1)-total labelling choosability and $G$
is list $L$-($p$,1)-total labelable. In this paper, we present a conjecture on
the upper bound of $C_{p,1}^T$. Furthermore, we study this parameter for paths
and trees in Section 2. We also prove that $C_{p,1}^T(K_{1,n})\leq n+2p-1$ for
star $K_{1,n}$ with $p\geq2, n\geq3$ in Section 3 and $C_{p,1}^T(G)\leq
\Delta+2p-1$ for outerplanar graph with $\Delta\geq p+3$ in Section 4.


High-T_c superconductivity in ultrathin Bi_2Sr_2CaCu_2O_8+x down to
  halfunit-cell thickness by protection with graphene

  High-T_c superconductors confined to two dimension exhibit novel physical
phenomena, such as superconductor-insulator transition. In the
Bi_2Sr_2CaCu_2O_8+x (Bi2212) model system, despite extensive studies, the
intrinsic superconducting properties at the thinness limit have been difficult
to determine. Here we report a method to fabricate high quality single-crystal
Bi2212 films down to half-unit-cell thickness in the form of graphene/Bi2212
van der Waals heterostructure, in which sharp superconducting transitions are
observed. The heterostructure also exhibits a nonlinear current-voltage
characteristic due to the Dirac nature of the graphene band structure. More
interestingly, although the critical temperature remains essentially the same
with reduced thickness of Bi2212, the slope of the normal state T-linear
resistivity varies by a factor of 4-5, and the sheet resistance increases by
three orders of magnitude, indicating a surprising decoupling of the normal
state resistance and superconductivity. The developed technique is versatile,
applicable to investigate other two-dimensional (2D) superconducting materials.


A Novel Feature Extraction Method for Scene Recognition Based on
  Centered Convolutional Restricted Boltzmann Machines

  Scene recognition is an important research topic in computer vision, while
feature extraction is a key step of object recognition. Although classical
Restricted Boltzmann machines (RBM) can efficiently represent complicated data,
it is hard to handle large images due to its complexity in computation. In this
paper, a novel feature extraction method, named Centered Convolutional
Restricted Boltzmann Machines (CCRBM), is proposed for scene recognition. The
proposed model is an improved Convolutional Restricted Boltzmann Machines
(CRBM) by introducing centered factors in its learning strategy to reduce the
source of instabilities. First, the visible units of the network are redefined
using centered factors. Then, the hidden units are learned with a modified
energy function by utilizing a distribution function, and the visible units are
reconstructed using the learned hidden units. In order to achieve better
generative ability, the Centered Convolutional Deep Belief Networks (CCDBN) is
trained in a greedy layer-wise way. Finally, a softmax regression is
incorporated for scene recognition. Extensive experimental evaluations using
natural scenes, MIT-indoor scenes, and Caltech 101 datasets show that the
proposed approach performs better than other counterparts in terms of
stability, generalization, and discrimination. The CCDBN model is more suitable
for natural scene image recognition by virtue of convolutional property.


Learning Depth from Single Images with Deep Neural Network Embedding
  Focal Length

  Learning depth from a single image, as an important issue in scene
understanding, has attracted a lot of attention in the past decade. The
accuracy of the depth estimation has been improved from conditional Markov
random fields, non-parametric methods, to deep convolutional neural networks
most recently. However, there exist inherent ambiguities in recovering 3D from
a single 2D image. In this paper, we first prove the ambiguity between the
focal length and monocular depth learning, and verify the result using
experiments, showing that the focal length has a great influence on accurate
depth recovery. In order to learn monocular depth by embedding the focal
length, we propose a method to generate synthetic varying-focal-length dataset
from fixed-focal-length datasets, and a simple and effective method is
implemented to fill the holes in the newly generated images. For the sake of
accurate depth recovery, we propose a novel deep neural network to infer depth
through effectively fusing the middle-level information on the
fixed-focal-length dataset, which outperforms the state-of-the-art methods
built on pre-trained VGG. Furthermore, the newly generated varying-focal-length
dataset is taken as input to the proposed network in both learning and
inference phases. Extensive experiments on the fixed- and varying-focal-length
datasets demonstrate that the learned monocular depth with embedded focal
length is significantly improved compared to that without embedding the focal
length information.


Adversarially Approximated Autoencoder for Image Generation and
  Manipulation

  Regularized autoencoders learn the latent codes, a structure with the
regularization under the distribution, which enables them the capability to
infer the latent codes given observations and generate new samples given the
codes. However, they are sometimes ambiguous as they tend to produce
reconstructions that are not necessarily faithful reproduction of the inputs.
The main reason is to enforce the learned latent code distribution to match a
prior distribution while the true distribution remains unknown. To improve the
reconstruction quality and learn the latent space a manifold structure, this
work present a novel approach using the adversarially approximated autoencoder
(AAAE) to investigate the latent codes with adversarial approximation. Instead
of regularizing the latent codes by penalizing on the distance between the
distributions of the model and the target, AAAE learns the autoencoder flexibly
and approximates the latent space with a simpler generator. The ratio is
estimated using generative adversarial network (GAN) to enforce the similarity
of the distributions. Additionally, the image space is regularized with an
additional adversarial regularizer. The proposed approach unifies two deep
generative models for both latent space inference and diverse generation. The
learning scheme is realized without regularization on the latent codes, which
also encourages faithful reconstruction. Extensive validation experiments on
four real-world datasets demonstrate the superior performance of AAAE. In
comparison to the state-of-the-art approaches, AAAE generates samples with
better quality and shares the properties of regularized autoencoder with a nice
latent manifold structure.


