Attacks on Local Searching Tools

  The Google Desktop Search is an indexing tool, currently in beta testing,
designed to allow users fast, intuitive, searching for local files. The
principle interface is provided through a local web server which supports an
interface similar to Google.com's normal web page. Indexing of local files
occurs when the system is idle, and understands a number of common file types.
A optional feature is that Google Desktop can integrate a short summary of a
local search results with Google.com web searches. This summary includes 30-40
character snippets of local files. We have uncovered a vulnerability that would
release private local data to an unauthorized remote entity. Using two
different attacks, we expose the small snippets of private local data to a
remote third party.


First Science with SAMI: A Serendipitously Discovered Galactic Wind in
  ESO 185-G031

  We present the first scientific results from the Sydney-AAO Multi-Object IFS
(SAMI) at the Anglo-Australian Telescope. This unique instrument deploys 13
fused fibre bundles (hexabundles) across a one-degree field of view allowing
simultaneous spatially-resolved spectroscopy of 13 galaxies. During the first
SAMI commissioning run, targeting a single galaxy field, one object (ESO
185-G031) was found to have extended minor axis emission with ionisation and
kinematic properties consistent with a large-scale galactic wind. The
importance of this result is two-fold: (i) fibre bundle spectrographs are able
to identify low-surface brightness emission arising from extranuclear activity;
(ii) such activity may be more common than presently assumed because
conventional multi-object spectrographs use single-aperture fibres and spectra
from these are nearly always dominated by nuclear emission. These early results
demonstrate the extraordinary potential of multi-object hexabundle spectroscopy
in future galaxy surveys.


The SAMI Galaxy Survey: Unveiling the nature of kinematically offset
  active galactic nuclei

  We have observed two kinematically offset active galactic nuclei (AGN), whose
ionised gas is at a different line-of-sight velocity to their host galaxies,
with the SAMI integral field spectrograph (IFS). One of the galaxies shows gas
kinematics very different to the stellar kinematics, indicating a recent merger
or accretion event. We demonstrate that the star formation associated with this
event was triggered within the last 100 Myr. The other galaxy shows simple disc
rotation in both gas and stellar kinematics, aligned with each other, but in
the central region has signatures of an outflow driven by the AGN. Other than
the outflow, neither galaxy shows any discontinuity in the ionised gas
kinematics at the galaxy's centre. We conclude that in these two cases there is
no direct evidence of the AGN being in a supermassive black hole binary system.
Our study demonstrates that selecting kinematically offset AGN from
single-fibre spectroscopy provides, by definition, samples of kinematically
peculiar objects, but IFS or other data are required to determine their true
nature.


The SAMI Galaxy Survey: Can we trust aperture corrections to predict
  star formation?

  In the low redshift Universe (z<0.3), our view of galaxy evolution is
primarily based on fibre optic spectroscopy surveys. Elaborate methods have
been developed to address aperture effects when fixed aperture sizes only probe
the inner regions for galaxies of ever decreasing redshift or increasing
physical size. These aperture corrections rely on assumptions about the
physical properties of galaxies. The adequacy of these aperture corrections can
be tested with integral-field spectroscopic data. We use integral-field spectra
drawn from 1212 galaxies observed as part of the SAMI Galaxy Survey to
investigate the validity of two aperture correction methods that attempt to
estimate a galaxy's total instantaneous star formation rate. We show that
biases arise when assuming that instantaneous star formation is traced by
broadband imaging, and when the aperture correction is built only from spectra
of the nuclear region of galaxies. These biases may be significant depending on
the selection criteria of a survey sample. Understanding the sensitivities of
these aperture corrections is essential for correct handling of systematic
errors in galaxy evolution studies.


The SAMI galaxy survey: Galaxy Interactions and Kinematic Anomalies in
  Abell 119

  Galaxy mergers are important events that can determine the fate of a galaxy
by changing its morphology, star-formation activity and mass growth. Merger
systems have commonly been identified from their disturbed morphologies, and we
now can employ Integral Field Spectroscopy to detect and analyze the impact of
mergers on stellar kinematics as well. We visually classified galaxy morphology
using deep images ($\mu_{\rm r} = 28\,\rm mag\,\, arcsec^{-2}$) taken by the
Blanco 4-m telescope at the Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory. In this
paper we investigate 63 bright ($M_{\rm r}<-19.3$) spectroscopically-selected
galaxies in Abell 119; of which 53 are early type and 20 galaxies show a
disturbed morphology by visual inspection. A misalignment between the major
axes in the photometric image and the kinematic map is conspicuous in
morphologically-disturbed galaxies. Our sample is dominated by early-type
galaxies, yet it shows a surprisingly tight Tully-Fisher relation except for
the morphologically-disturbed galaxies which show large deviations. Three out
of the eight slow rotators in our sample are morphology disturbed. The
visually-selected morphologically-disturbed galaxies are generally more
asymmetric, visually as well as kinematically. Our findings suggest that galaxy
interactions, including mergers and perhaps fly-bys, play an important role in
determining the orientation and magnitude of galaxy's angular momentum.


The Case for Electron Re-Acceleration at Galaxy Cluster Shocks

  On the largest scales, the Universe consists of voids and filaments making up
the cosmic web. Galaxy clusters are located at the knots in this web, at the
intersection of filaments. Clusters grow through accretion from these
large-scale filaments and by mergers with other clusters and groups. In a
growing number of galaxy clusters, elongated Mpc-size radio sources have been
found, so-called radio relics. These relics are thought to trace relativistic
electrons in the intracluster plasma accelerated by low-Mach number
collisionless shocks generated by cluster-cluster merger events. A
long-standing problem is how low-Mach number shocks can accelerate electrons so
efficiently to explain the observed radio relics. Here we report on the
discovery of a direct connection between a radio relic and a radio galaxy in
the merging galaxy cluster Abell 3411-3412. This discovery indicates that
fossil relativistic electrons from active galactic nuclei are re-accelerated at
cluster shocks. It also implies that radio galaxies play an important role in
governing the non-thermal component of the intracluster medium in merging
clusters.


The SAMI Galaxy Survey: extraplanar gas, galactic winds, and their
  association with star formation history

  We investigate a sample of 40 local, main-sequence, edge-on disc galaxies
using integral field spectroscopy with the Sydney-AAO Multi-object Integral
field spectrograph (SAMI) Galaxy Survey to understand the link between
properties of the extraplanar gas and their host galaxies. The kinematics
properties of the extraplanar gas, including velocity asymmetries and increased
dispersion, are used to differentiate galaxies hosting large-scale galactic
winds from those dominated by the extended diffuse ionized gas. We find rather
that a spectrum of diffuse gas-dominated to wind dominated galaxies exist. The
wind-dominated galaxies span a wide range of star formation rates ($-1 \lesssim
\log({\rm SFR/M_{\odot} yr^{-1}}) \lesssim 0.5$) across the whole stellar mass
range of the sample ($8.5 \lesssim \log({\rm M_{*}/M_{\odot}}) \lesssim 11$).
The wind galaxies also span a wide range in SFR surface densities ($10^{-3}
\textrm{--} 10^{-1.5}\rm~M_{\odot} ~yr^{-1}~kpc^{-2}$) that is much lower than
the canonical threshold of $\rm0.1~M_{\odot} ~yr^{-1}~kpc^{-2}$. The wind
galaxies on average have higher SFR surface densities and higher $\rm
H\delta_A$ values than those without strong wind signatures. The enhanced $\rm
H\delta_A$ indicates that bursts of star formation in the recent past are
necessary for driving large-scale galactic winds. We demonstrate with Sloan
Digital Sky Survey data that galaxies with high SFR surface density have
experienced bursts of star formation in the recent past. Our results imply that
the galactic winds revealed in our study are indeed driven by bursts of star
formation, and thus probing star formation in the time domain is crucial for
finding and understanding galactic winds.


The SAMI Galaxy Survey: Early Data Release

  We present the Early Data Release of the Sydney-AAO Multi-object Integral
field spectrograph (SAMI) Galaxy Survey. The SAMI Galaxy Survey is an ongoing
integral field spectroscopic survey of ~3400 low-redshift (z<0.12) galaxies,
covering galaxies in the field and in groups within the Galaxy And Mass
Assembly (GAMA) survey regions, and a sample of galaxies in clusters.
  In the Early Data Release, we publicly release the fully calibrated datacubes
for a representative selection of 107 galaxies drawn from the GAMA regions,
along with information about these galaxies from the GAMA catalogues. All
datacubes for the Early Data Release galaxies can be downloaded individually or
as a set from the SAMI Galaxy Survey website.
  In this paper we also assess the quality of the pipeline used to reduce the
SAMI data, giving metrics that quantify its performance at all stages in
processing the raw data into calibrated datacubes. The pipeline gives excellent
results throughout, with typical sky subtraction residuals in the continuum of
0.9-1.2 per cent, a relative flux calibration uncertainty of 4.1 per cent
(systematic) plus 4.3 per cent (statistical), and atmospheric dispersion
removed with an accuracy of 0."09, less than a fifth of a spaxel.


The SAMI Galaxy Survey: Revisiting Galaxy Classification Through
  High-Order Stellar Kinematics

  Recent cosmological hydrodynamical simulations suggest that integral field
spectroscopy can connect the high-order stellar kinematic moments h3
(~skewness) and h4 (~kurtosis) in galaxies to their cosmological assembly
history. Here, we assess these results by measuring the stellar kinematics on a
sample of 315 galaxies, without a morphological selection, using 2D integral
field data from the SAMI Galaxy Survey. A proxy for the spin parameter
($\lambda_{R_e}$) and ellipticity ($\epsilon_e$) are used to separate fast and
slow rotators; there exists a good correspondence to regular and non-regular
rotators, respectively, as also seen in earlier studies. We confirm that
regular rotators show a strong h3 versus $V/\sigma$ anti-correlation, whereas
quasi-regular and non-regular rotators show a more vertical relation in h3 and
$V/\sigma$. Motivated by recent cosmological simulations, we develop an
alternative approach to kinematically classify galaxies from their individual
h3 versus $V/\sigma$ signatures. We identify five classes of high-order stellar
kinematic signatures using Gaussian mixture models. Class 1 corresponds to slow
rotators, whereas Classes 2-5 correspond to fast rotators. We find that
galaxies with similar $\lambda_{R_e}-\epsilon_e$ values can show distinctly
different h3-$V/\sigma$ signatures. Class 5 objects are previously unidentified
fast rotators that show a weak h3 versus $V/\sigma$ anti-correlation. These
objects are predicted to be disk-less galaxies formed by gas-poor mergers. From
morphological examination, however, there is evidence for large stellar disks.
Instead, Class 5 objects are more likely disturbed galaxies, have
counter-rotating bulges, or bars in edge-on galaxies. Finally, we interpret the
strong anti-correlation in h3 versus $V/\sigma$ as evidence for disks in most
fast rotators, suggesting a dearth of gas-poor mergers among fast rotators.


