Using Smith Normal Forms and mu-Bases to Compute all the Singularities
  of Rational Planar Curves

  We prove the conjecture of Chen, Wang and Liu in [8] concerning how to
calculate the parameter values corresponding to all the singu- larities,
including the infinitely near singularities, of rational planar curves from the
Smith normal forms of certain Bezout resultant ma- trices derived from
mu-bases.


New Geometrical Spectra of Linear Codes with Applications to Performance
  Analysis

  In this paper, new enumerating functions for linear codes are defined,
including the triangle enumerating function and the tetrahedron enumerating
function, both of which can be computed using a trellis-based algorithm over
polynomial rings. The computational complexity is dominated by the complexity
of the trellis. In addition, we show that these new enumerating functions can
be used to improve existing performance bounds on the maximum likelihood
decoding.


Fast Estimation of Diffusion Tensors under Rician noise by the EM
  algorithm

  This paper presents a fast computational method, the Expectation Maximization
algorithm, for Maximum Likelihood (ML) estimation in diffusion tensor imaging
under the Rice noise model. We further extend the ML framework to the maximum a
posterior (MAP) estimation and describe the numerical similarities of both ML
and MAP estimators. This novel method is implemented and applied using both
synthetic and real data in a wide range of b amplitudes. The comparison with
other popular methods are made in accuracy, methodology and computation.


Minimum Variance Multi-Frequency Distortionless Restriction for Digital
  Wideband Beamformer

  This paper proposes a digital amplitude-phase weighting array based a minimum
variance multi-frequency distortionless restriction (MVMFDR) to aviod the
frequency band signal distortion in digital beamformer and too short time delay
line (TDL) requirement in analoge wideband TDL array.


Fast Impurity Solver for Dynamical Mean Field Theory based on second
  order perturbation around the atomic limit

  An impurity solver for the dynamical mean field (DMFT) study of the Mott
insulators is proposed, which is based on the second order perturbation of the
hybridization function. After carefully benchmarking it with Quantum Monte
Carlo results on the anti-ferromagnetic phase of the Hubbard model, we conclude
that this impurity solver can capture the main physical features in the strong
coupling regime and can be a very useful tool for the LDA+DMFT studies of the
Mott insulators with long range order.


Analytical Solution for the SU(2) Hedgehog Skyrmion and Static
  Properties of Nucleons

  An analytical solution for symmetric Skyrmion was proposed for the SU(2)
Skyrme model, which take the form of the hybrid form of a kink-like solution
and that given by the instanton method. The static properties of nucleons was
then computed within the framework of collective quantization of the Skyrme
model, with a good agreement with that given by the exact numeric solution. The
comparisons with the previous results as well as the experimental values are
also given.


Spin transfer torque on magnetic insulators

  Recent experimental and theoretical studies focus on spin-mediated heat
currents at interfaces between normal metals and magnetic insulators. We
resolve conflicting estimates for the order of magnitude of the spin transfer
torque by first-principles calculations. The spin mixing conductance
G^\uparrow\downarrow of the interface between silver and the insulating
ferrimagnet Yttrium Iron Garnet (YIG) is dominated by its real part and of the
order of 10^14 \Omega^-1m^-2, i.e. close to the value for intermetallic
interface, which can be explained by a local spin model.


Phase-dependent optical response properties in an optomechanical system
  by coherently driving the mechanical resonator

  We explore theoretically the optical response properties in an optomechanical
system under electromagneti- cally induced transparency condition but with the
mechanical resonator being driven by an additional coherent field. In this
configuration, more complex quantum coherent and interference phenomena occur.
In partic- ular, we find that the probe transmission spectra depend on the
total phase of the applied fields. Our study also provides an efficient way to
control propagation of amplification.


A note on the number of coefficients of automorphic $L-$functions for
  $GL_m$ with same signs

  Let $\pi$ be an irreducible unitary cuspidal representation of $GL_m({\Bbb
A}_{\Bbb Q})$ and $L(s,\,\pi)$ be the global $L-$function attached to $\pi$. If
${\rm Re}(s)>1$, $L(s,\,\pi)$ has a Dirichlet series expression. When $\pi$ is
self-contragradient, all the coefficients of Dirichlet series are real. In this
note, we shall give non-trivial lower bounds for the number of positive and
negative coefficients respectively, which is an improvement on the recent work
of Jianya Liu and Jie Wu.


Vanilla Lasso for sparse classification under single index models

  This paper study sparse classification problems. We show that under
single-index models, vanilla Lasso could give good estimate of unknown
parameters. With this result, we see that even if the model is not linear, and
even if the response is not continuous, we could still use vanilla Lasso to
train classifiers. Simulations confirm that vanilla Lasso could be used to get
a good estimation when data are generated from a logistic regression model.


Vacuum induced Berry phases in single-mode Jaynes-Cummings models

  Motivated by the work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 220404 (2002)] for detecting the
vacuum-induced Berry phases with two-mode Jaynes-Cummings models (JCMs), we
show here that, for a parameter-dependent single-mode JCM, certain atom-field
states also acquire the photon-number-dependent Berry phases after the
parameter slowly changed and eventually returned to its initial value. This
geometric effect related to the field quantization still exists, even the filed
is kept in its vacuum state. Specifically, a feasible Ramsey interference
experiment with cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) system is designed to
detect the vacuum-induced Berry phase.


Long time dynamics of defocusing energy critical 3 + 1 dimensional wave
  equation with potential in the radial case

  Using channel of energy inequalities developed by T.Duyckaerts, C.Kenig and
F.Merle, we prove that, modulo a free radiation, any finite energy radial
solution to the defocusing energy critical wave equation with radial potential
in 3 + 1 dimensions converges to the set of steady states as time goes to
infinity. For generic potentials we prove there are only finitely many steady
states, and in this case modulo some free radiation the solution converges to
one steady state as time goes to infinity.


Possible hadronic molecular states composed of $S$-wave heavy-light
  mesons

  We perform a systematical study of possible molecular states composed of the
$S$ wave heavy light mesons, where the $S-D$ mixing and {$\eta-\eta^{\prime}$
mixing} are explicitly included. Our calculation indicates that the observed
$X(3872)$ could be a loosely shallow molecular state composed of $D\bar{D}^\ast
+h.c$, while neither $Z_c(3900)/Z_c(4020)$ nor $Z_b(10610)/Z_b(10650)$ is
supported to be a molecule. Some observed possible molecular states are
predicted, which could be searched for by further experimental measurements.


Ultra-cold Collisions between Spin-Orbit-Coupled Dipoles: General
  Formalism and Universality

  A theoretical study of the low-energy scattering properties of two aligned
identical bosonic and fermionic dipoles in the presence of isotropic spin-orbit
coupling (SOC) is presented. A general treatment of particles with arbitrary
(pseudo-) spin is given in the framework of multi-channel scattering. At
ultracold temperatures and away from shape resonances or closed-channel
dominated resonances, the cross-section can be well described within the Born
approximation to within corrections due to the s-wave scattering. We compare
our findings with numerical calculations and find excellent agreement.


Emergent Quantum Dynamics of Vortex Line under Linear Local Induction
  Approximation

  Using the linear local induction approximation, we investigated the
self-induced motion of a vortex line that corresponds to the motion of a
particle in quantum mechanics. Concerning Kelvin waves, the effective
Schr\"odinger equation, physical quantities operators, and the corresponding
path-integral formula are obtained. The vortex line-particle mapping may help
in understanding particle motion in quantum mechanics.


Bottom-quark Forward-Backward Asymmetry, Dark Matter and the LHC

  The LEP experiment at CERN provided accurate measurements of the $Z$ neutral
gauge boson properties. Although all measurements agree well with the SM
predictions, the forward backward asymmetry of the bottom-quark remains almost
3$\sigma$ away from the SM value. We proposed that this anomaly may be
explained by the existence of a new $U(1)_D$ gauge boson, which couples with
opposite charges to the right-handed components of the bottom and charm quarks.
Cancellation of gauge anomalies demands the presence of a vector-like singlet
charged lepton as well as a neutral Dirac (or Majorana) particle that provides
a Dark Matter candidate. Constraints from precision measurements imply that the
mass of the new gauge boson should be around $115$~GeV. We discuss the
experimental constraints on this scenario, including the existence of a di-jet
resonance excess at an invariant mass similar to the mass of this new gauge
boson, observed in boosted topologies at the CMS experiment.


Î›_b Lifetime from the HQET Sum Rule

  The HQET sum rule analysis for the \Lambda_b matrix element of the four-quark
operator relevant to its lifetime is reported. Our main conclusion is that the
lifetime ratio \tau(\Lambda_b)/\tau(B^0) can be as low as 0.91.


Quantum Private Comparison: A Review

  As an important branch of quantum secure multiparty computation, quantum
private comparison (QPC) has attracted more and more attention recently. In
this paper, according to the quantum implementation mechanism that these
protocols used, we divide these protocols into three categories: The quantum
cryptography QPC, the superdense coding QPC, and the entanglement swapping QPC.
And then, a more in-depth analysis on the research progress, design idea, and
substantive characteristics of corresponding QPC categories is carried out,
respectively. Finally, the applications of QPC and quantum secure multi-party
computation issues are discussed and, in addition, three possible research
mainstream directions are pointed out.


Large Margin Softmax Loss for Speaker Verification

  In neural network based speaker verification, speaker embedding is expected
to be discriminative between speakers while the intra-speaker distance should
remain small. A variety of loss functions have been proposed to achieve this
goal. In this paper, we investigate the large margin softmax loss with
different configurations in speaker verification. Ring loss and minimum
hyperspherical energy criterion are introduced to further improve the
performance. Results on VoxCeleb show that our best system outperforms the
baseline approach by 15\% in EER, and by 13\%, 33\% in minDCF08 and minDCF10,
respectively.


Sub-barrier fusion of 32S+90,96Zr: semi-classical coupled-channels
  approach

  The fusion excitation functions have been measured with rather good accuracy
for 32S+90Zr and 32S+96Zr near and below the Coulomb barrier. The sub-barrier
cross sections for 32S+96Zr are much larger compared with 32S+90Zr.
Semi-classical coupled-channels calculations including two-phonon excitations
are capable to describe sub-barrier enhancement only for 32S+90Zr. The
remaining disagreement for 32S+96Zr comes from the positive Q-value
intermediate neutron transfers in this system. The comparison with 40Ca+96Zr
suggests that couplings to the positive Q-value neutron transfer channels may
play a role in the sub-barrier fusion enhancement. A rather simple model
calculation taking neutron transfers into account is proposed to overcome the
discrepancies of 32S+96Zr.


Electromagnetic fingerprints of the Little Bang

  Measurements of thermal photons emitted from the rapidly expanding hot and
dense medium ("Little Bang") formed in ultra relativistic heavy-ion collisions,
and their current theoretical interpretation, are reviewed.


New classes of quadratic bent functions in polynomial forms

  In this paper, we propose a new construction of quadratic bent functions in
polynomial forms. Right Euclid algorithm in skew-polynomial rings over finite
fields of characteristic 2 is applied in the proof.


Conjugate Gradient Projection Approach for Multi-Antenna Gaussian
  Broadcast Channels

  It has been shown recently that the dirty-paper coding is the optimal
strategy for maximizing the sum rate of multiple-input multiple-output Gaussian
broadcast channels (MIMO BC). Moreover, by the channel duality, the nonconvex
MIMO BC sum rate problem can be transformed to the convex dual MIMO
multiple-access channel (MIMO MAC) problem with a sum power constraint. In this
paper, we design an efficient algorithm based on conjugate gradient projection
(CGP) to solve the MIMO BC maximum sum rate problem. Our proposed CGP algorithm
solves the dual sum power MAC problem by utilizing the powerful concept of
Hessian conjugacy. We also develop a rigorous algorithm to solve the projection
problem. We show that CGP enjoys provable convergence, nice scalability, and
great efficiency for large MIMO BC systems.


Maximum Weighted Sum Rate of Multi-Antenna Broadcast Channels

  Recently, researchers showed that dirty paper coding (DPC) is the optimal
transmission strategy for multiple-input multiple-output broadcast channels
(MIMO-BC). In this paper, we study how to determine the maximum weighted sum of
DPC rates through solving the maximum weighted sum rate problem of the dual
MIMO multiple access channel (MIMO-MAC) with a sum power constraint. We first
simplify the maximum weighted sum rate problem such that enumerating all
possible decoding orders in the dual MIMO-MAC is unnecessary. We then design an
efficient algorithm based on conjugate gradient projection (CGP) to solve the
maximum weighted sum rate problem. Our proposed CGP method utilizes the
powerful concept of Hessian conjugacy. We also develop a rigorous algorithm to
solve the projection problem. We show that CGP enjoys provable convergence,
nice scalability, and great efficiency for large MIMO-BC systems.


Prospects for Detecting Neutrino Signals from Annihilating/Decaying Dark
  Matter to Account for the PAMELA and ATIC results

  Recent PAMELA data show that positron fraction has an excess above several
GeV while anti-proton one is not. Moreover ATIC data indicates that
electron/positron flux have a bump from 300 GeV to 800 GeV. Both annihilating
dark matter (DM) with large boost factor and decaying DM with the life around $
10^{26} s$ can account for the PAMELA and ATIC observations if their main final
products are charged leptons ($e$, $\mu$ and $\tau$). In this work, we
calculated the neutrino flux arising from $\mu$ and $\tau$ which originate from
annihilating/decaying DM, and estimated the final muon rate in the neutrino
telescopes, namely Antares and IceCube. Given the excellent angular resolution,
Antares and IceCube are promising to discover the neutrino signals from
Galactic center and/or large DM subhalo in annihilating DM scenario, but very
challenging in decaying DM scenario.


Dark Matter as a Possible New Energy Source for Future Rocket Technology

  Current rocket technology can not send the spaceship very far, because the
amount of the chemical fuel it can take is limited. We try to use dark matter
(DM) as fuel to solve this problem. In this work, we give an example of DM
engine using dark matter annihilation products as propulsion. The acceleration
is proportional to the velocity, which makes the velocity increase
exponentially with time in non-relativistic region. The important points for
the acceleration are how dense is the DM density and how large is the
saturation region. The parameters of the spaceship may also have great
influence on the results. We show that the (sub)halos can accelerate the
spaceship to velocity $ 10^{- 5} c \sim 10^{- 3} c$. Moreover, in case there is
a central black hole in the halo, like the galactic center, the radius of the
dense spike can be large enough to accelerate the spaceship close to the speed
of light.


On Parameterized Gallager's First Bounds for Binary Linear Codes over
  AWGN Channels

  In this paper, nested Gallager regions with a single parameter is introduced
to exploit Gallager's first bounding technique (GFBT). We present a necessary
and sufficient condition on the optimal parameter. We also present a sufficient
condition (with a simple geometrical explanation) under which the optimal
parameter does not depend on the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). With this general
framework, three existing upper bounds are revisited, including the tangential
bound (TB) of Berlekamp, the sphere bound (SB) of Herzberg and Poltyrev, and
the tangential-sphere bound (TSB) of Poltyrev. This paper also reveals that the
SB of Herzberg and Poltyrev is equivalent to the SB of Kasami et al., which was
rarely cited in literature.


LHC diphoton excess from colorful resonances

  Motivated by the possible diphoton excess around $750~\rm{GeV}$ observed by
ATLAS and CMS at $13~\rm{TeV}$, we consider a coloron model from $\rm{SU}(3)_1
\times \rm{SU}(3)_2$ spontaneously breaking to the Standard Model
$\rm{SU}(3)_C$. A colored massive vector boson is resonantly produced by $q
\bar q $ in proton collision, followed by a colored scalar cascade decay. This
process gives two photons and one jet in the final states. And the kinetic edge
of the two photons can be an interpretation of the diphoton excess, while
satisfying the dijet, $\rm{t}\bar{t}$, jet+photon resonance constraints. In
this model, due to the large mass of vector resonance, the parton luminosity
function ratio between $13~\rm{TeV}$ and $8~\rm{TeV}$ can be quite large.
Therefore, the diphoton excess has not been observed at $8~\rm{TeV}$ search. On
the other hand, having all the new particles color-charged around $\rm{TeV}$,
this model predicts new signals at the LHC, which can be validated soon.


A Tale of Two Portals: Testing Light, Hidden New Physics at Future $e^+
  e^-$ Colliders

  We investigate the prospects for producing new, light, hidden states at a
future $e^+ e^-$ collider in a Higgsed dark $U(1)_D$ model, which we call the
Double Dark Portal model. The simultaneous presence of both vector and scalar
portal couplings immediately modifies the Standard Model Higgsstrahlung
channel, $e^+ e^- \to Zh$, at leading order in each coupling. In addition, each
portal leads to complementary signals which can be probed at direct and
indirect detection dark matter experiments. After accounting for current
constraints from LEP and LHC, we demonstrate that a future $e^+ e^-$ Higgs
factory will have unique and leading sensitivity to the two portal couplings by
studying a host of new production, decay, and radiative return processes.
Besides the possibility of exotic Higgs decays, we highlight the importance of
direct dark vector and dark scalar production at $e^+ e^-$ machines, whose
invisible decays can be tagged from the recoil mass method.


Throughput capacity of two-hop relay MANETs under finite buffers

  Since the seminal work of Grossglauser and Tse [1], the two-hop relay
algorithm and its variants have been attractive for mobile ad hoc networks
(MANETs) due to their simplicity and efficiency. However, most literature
assumed an infinite buffer size for each node, which is obviously not
applicable to a realistic MANET. In this paper, we focus on the exact
throughput capacity study of two-hop relay MANETs under the practical finite
relay buffer scenario. The arrival process and departure process of the relay
queue are fully characterized, and an ergodic Markov chain-based framework is
also provided. With this framework, we obtain the limiting distribution of the
relay queue and derive the throughput capacity under any relay buffer size.
Extensive simulation results are provided to validate our theoretical framework
and explore the relationship among the throughput capacity, the relay buffer
size and the number of nodes.


Grid-side Flexibility of Power Systems in Integrating Large-scale
  Renewable Generations: A Critical Review on Concepts, Formulations and
  Solution Approaches

  Though considerable effort has been devoted to exploiting generation-side and
demand-side operational flexibility in order to cope with uncertain renewable
generations, grid-side operational flexibility has not been fully investigated.
In this review, we define grid-side flexibility as the ability of a power
network to deploy its flexibility resources to cope with the changes of power
system state, particularly due to variation of renewable generation. Starting
with a survey on the metrics of operational flexibility, we explain the
definition from both physical and mathematical point of views. Then conceptual
examples are presented to demonstrate the impacts of grid-side flexibility
graphically, providing a geometric interpretation for a better understanding of
the concepts. Afterwards the formulations and solution approaches in terms of
grid-side flexibility in power system operation and planning are reviewed,
based on which future research directions and challenges are outlined.


Bayesian model-based spatiotemporal survey design for log-Gaussian Cox
  process

  In geostatistics, the design for data collection is central for accurate
prediction and parameter inference. One important class of geostatistical
models is log-Gaussian Cox process (LGCP) which is used extensively, for
example, in ecology. However, there are no formal analyses on optimal designs
for LGCP models. In this work, we develop a novel model-based experimental
design for LGCP modeling of spatiotemporal point process data. We propose a new
spatially balanced rejection sampling design which directs sampling to
spatiotemporal locations that are a priori expected to provide most
information. We compare the rejection sampling design to traditional balanced
and uniform random designs using the average predictive variance loss function
and the Kullback-Leibler divergence between prior and posterior for the LGCP
intensity function. Our results show that the rejection sampling method
outperforms the corresponding balanced and uniform random sampling designs for
LGCP whereas the latter work better for models with Gaussian models. We perform
a case study applying our new sampling design to plan a survey for species
distribution modeling on larval areas of two commercially important fish stocks
on Finnish coastal areas. The case study results show that rejection sampling
designs give considerable benefit compared to traditional designs. Results show
also that best performing designs may vary considerably between target species.


Constraining neutrino mass with tomographic weak lensing one-point
  probability distribution function and power spectrum

  We study the constraints on neutrino mass sum (M_nu) from the one-point
probability distribution function (PDF) and power spectrum of weak lensing
measurements for an LSST-like survey, using the MassiveNuS simulations. The PDF
provides access to non-Gaussian information beyond the power spectrum. It is
particularly sensitive to nonlinear growth on small scales, where massive
neutrinos also have the largest effect. We find that tomography helps improve
the constraint on M_nu by 14% and 32% for the power spectrum and the PDF,
respectively, compared to a single redshift bin. The PDF alone outperforms the
power spectrum in constraining M_nu. When the two statistics are combined, the
constraint is further tightened by 35%. We conclude that weak lensing PDF is
complementary to the power spectrum and has the potential to become a powerful
tool for constraining neutrino mass.


Nucleus Neural Network for Super Robust Learning

  Artificial neural networks which model the neurons and connecting
architectures in brain have achieved great successes in many problems,
especially those with deep layers. In this paper, we propose a nucleus neural
network (NNN) and corresponding architecture and parameter learning methods. In
a nucleus, there are no regular layers, i.e., a neuron may connect to all the
neurons in the nucleus. This architecture gets rid of layer limitation and may
lead to more powerful learning capability. It is crucial to determine the
connections given numerous neurons. Based on the principle that more relevant
input and output neuron pair deserves higher connecting density, we propose an
architecture learning model for the nucleus. Moreover, we propose an improved
learning method for learning connecting weights and biases with the optimized
architecture. We find that this novel architecture is robust to irrelevant
components in test data. So we define a super robust learning problem and test
the proposed network with one case where the types of image backgrounds in
training and test sets are different. Experiments demonstrate that the proposed
learner achieves significant improvement over traditional learners on the
reconstructed data set.


The littlest Higgs model with T-parity and single top production at $ep$
  collision

  Based on calculating the contributions of the littlest Higgs model with
T-parity (called $LHT$ model) to the anomalous top coupling $tq\gamma$ ($q=u$
or $c$), we consider single top production via the t-channel partonic process
$eq\to et$ at $ep$ collision. Our numerical results show that the production
cross section in the $LHT$ model can be significantly enhanced relative to that
in the standard model.


Scanning Tunneling Microscope Nanolithography on SrRuO3 Thin Film
  Surfaces

  Nanoscale lithography on SrRuO3 (SRO) thin film surfaces has been performed
by scanning tunneling microscopy under ambient conditions. The depth of etched
lines increases with increasing bias voltage but it does not change
significantly by increasing the tunneling current. The dependence of line width
on bias voltage from experimental data is in agreement with theoretical
calculation based on field-induced evaporation. Moreover, a three-square
nanostructure was successfully created, showing the capability of fabricating
nanodevices in SRO thin films.


The propagation of Elastic Waves in Granular Solid Hydrodynamics

  The anisotropic, stress-dependent velocity of elastic waves in glass beads --
as observed by Y. Khidas and X. Jia, see [Phys. Rev. E, 81:021303, Feb. 2010]
-- is shown to be well accounted for by ``granular solid hydrodynamics,'' a
broad-range macroscopic theory of granular behavior. As the theory makes no
reference to fabric anisotropy, the influence of which on sound is in doubt.


The Coexistence of Superconductivity and Topological Order in the Bi2Se3
  Thin Films

  This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to journal requirement.


A note on eigenvalues and Hamiltoinan properties of $k$-connected graphs

  Let $\lambda_{1}(G)$ and $\mu_{1}(G)$ denote the spectral radius and the
Laplacian spectral radius of a graph $G$, respectively. Li in [Electronic J.
Linear Algebra 34 (2018) 389-392] proved sharp upper bounds of $\lambda_{1}(G)$
based on the connectivity to assure a connected graph to be Hamiltonian and
traceable, respectively. In this paper, we present best possible upper bounds
of $\lambda_{1}(G)$ for $k$-connected graphs to be Hamiltonian-connected and
homogeneously traceable, respectively. Furthermore, best possible upper bounds
of $\mu_{1}(G)$ to predict $k$-connected graphs to be Hamiltonian-connected,
Hamiltonian and traceable are originally proved, respectively.


Vertex-connectivity and $Q$-index of graphs with fixed girth

  Let $q(G)$ denote the $Q$-index of a graph $G$, which is the largest signless
Laplacian eigenvalue of $G$. We prove best possible upper bounds of $q(G)$ and
best possible lower bounds of $q(\overline{G})$ for a connected graph $G$ to be
$k$-connected and maximally connected, respectively. Similar upper bounds of
$q(G)$ and lower bounds of $q(\overline{G})$ to assure $G$ to be
super-connected are also obtained. Upper bounds of $q(G)$ and lower bounds of
$q(\overline{G})$ to assure a connected triangle-free graph $G$ to be
$k$-connected, maximally connected and super-connected are also respectively
investigated.


Common Features in Electronic Structure of the Fe-Based Layered
  Superconductors from Photoemission Spectroscopy

  High resolution photoemission measurements have been carried out on
non-superconducting LaOFeAs parent compound and various superconducting
R(O1-xFx)FeAs (R=La, Ce and Pr) compounds. We found that the parent LaOFeAs
compound shows a metallic character. Through extensive measurements, we have
identified several common features in the electronic structure of these
Fe-based compounds: (1). 0.2 eV feature in the valence band; (2). A universal
13~16 meV feature; (3). A clear Fermi cutoff showing zero leading-edge shift in
the superconducting state;(4). Lack of superconducting coherence peak(s); (5).
Near EF spectral weight suppression with decreasing temperature. These
universal features can provide important information about band structure,
superconducting gap and pseudogap in these Fe-based materials.


Growth, Characterization and Fermi Surface of Heavy Fermion CeCoIn5
  Superconductor

  High quality single crystals of heavy Fermion CeCoIn5 superconductor have
been grown by flux method with a typical size of (1~2)mm x (1~2)mm x ~0.1 mm.
The single crystals are characterized by structural analysis from X-ray
diffraction and Laue diffraction, as well as compositional analysis. Magnetic
and electrical measurements on the single crystals show a sharp superconducting
transition with a transition temperature at Tc(onset) ~ 2.3 K and a transition
width of ~0.15 K. The resistivity of the CeCoIn5 crystal exhibits a hump at ~45
K which is typical of a heavy Fermion system. High resolution angle-resolved
photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) measurements of CeCoIn5 reveal clear Fermi
surface sheets that are consistent with the band structure calculations when
assuming itinerant Ce 4f electrons at low temperature. This work provides
important information on the electronic structure of heavy Fermion CeCoIn5
superconductor. It also lays a foundation for further studies on the physical
properties and superconducting mechanism of the heavy Fermion superconductors.


Superconductivity in single-layer films of FeSe with a transition
  temperature above 100 K

  Recently, interface has been employed to enhance superconductivity in the
single-layer FeSe films grown on SrTiO3(001)(STO) with a possible Tc of ~ 80 K,
which is nearly ten times of the Tc of bulk FeSe and is above the Tc record of
56 K for the bulk Fe-based superconductors. This work together with those on
superconducting oxides interfaces revives the long-standing idea that electron
pairing at a two-dimensional (2D) interface between two different materials is
a potential path to high transition temperature (Tc) superconductivity.
Subsequent angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) measurements
revealed different electronic structure from those of bulk FeSe with a
superconducting-like energy gap closing at around 65K. However, previous ex
situ electrical transport measurements could only detect the zero-resistance
below ~30 K. Here we report the observation of high Tc superconductivity in the
FeSe/STO system. By in situ 4-point probe (4PP) electrical transport
measurement that can be conducted at an arbitrary position of the FeSe film on
STO, we detected superconductivity above 100 K. Our finding makes FeSe/STO the
exciting and ideal research platform for higher Tc superconductivity.


Topological Superconductor Bi2Te3/NbSe2 heterostructures

  Topological superconductors (TSCs) have a full gap in the bulk and gapless
surface states consisting of Majorana fermions, which have potential
applications in fault-tolerant topological quantum computation. Because TSCs
are very rare in nature, an alternative way to study the TSC is to artificially
introduce superconductivity into the surface states of a topological insulator
(TI) through proximity effect (PE)1-4. Here we report the first experimental
realization of the PE induced TSC in Bi2Te3/NbSe2 thin films as demonstrated by
the density of states probed using scanning tunneling microscope. We observe
Abrikosov vortices and lower energy bound states on the surface of topological
insulator and the dependence of superconducting coherence length on the film
thickness and magnetic field, which are attributed to the superconductivity in
the topological surface states. This work demonstrates the practical
feasibility of fabricating a TSC with individual Majorana fermions inside
superconducting vortex as predicted in theory and accomplishes the
pre-requisite step towards searching for Majorana fermions in the PE induced
TSCs.


Majorana mode in vortex core of Bi2Te3/NbSe2 topological
  insulator-superconductor heterostructure

  Majorana fermions have been intensively studied in recent years for their
importance to both fundamental science and potential applications in
topological quantum computing1,2. Majorana fermions are predicted to exist in a
vortex core of superconducting topological insulators3. However, they are
extremely difficult to be distinguished experimentally from other quasiparticle
states for the tiny energy difference between Majorana fermions and these
states, which is beyond the energy resolution of most available techniques.
Here, we overcome the problem by systematically investigating the spatial
profile of the Majorana mode and the bound quasiparticle states within a vortex
in Bi2Te3/NbSe2. While the zero bias peak in local conductance splits right off
the vortex center in conventional superconductors, it splits off at a finite
distance ~20nm away from the vortex center in Bi2Te3/NbSe2, primarily due to
the Majorana fermion zero mode. While the Majorana mode is destroyed by
reducing the distance between vortices, the zero bias peak splits as a
conventional superconductor again. This work provides strong evidences of
Majorana fermions and also suggests a possible route to manipulating them.


Superconducting Gap and Pseudogap in Sm(O$_{1-x}$F$_x$)FeAs Layered
  Superconductor from Photoemission Spectroscopy

  High resolution photoemission measurements have been carried out on
non-superconducting SmOFeAs parent compound and superconducting
Sm(O$_{1-x}$F$_x$)FeAs (x=0.12, and 0.15) compounds. The momentum-integrated
spectra exhibit a clear Fermi cutoff that shows little leading-edge shift in
the superconducting state which suggests the Fermi surface sheet(s) around the
$\Gamma$ point may not be gapped in this multiband superconductors. A robust
feature at 13 meV is identified in all these samples. Spectral weight
suppression near E$_F$ with decreasing temperature is observed in both undoped
and doped samples that points to a possible existence of a pseudogap in these
Fe-based compounds.


Exploring a Unified Attention-Based Pooling Framework for Speaker
  Verification

  The pooling layer is an essential component in the neural network based
speaker verification. Most of the current networks in speaker verification use
average pooling to derive the utterance-level speaker representations. Average
pooling takes every frame as equally important, which is suboptimal since the
speaker-discriminant power is different between speech segments. In this paper,
we present a unified attention-based pooling framework and combine it with the
multi-head attention. Experiments on the Fisher and NIST SRE 2010 dataset show
that involving outputs from lower layers to compute the attention weights can
outperform average pooling and achieve better results than vanilla attention
method. The multi-head attention further improves the performance.


A $\pmbÎ½$ Solution to the Strong CP Problem

  We present a new solution to the strong CP problem in which the imaginary
component of the up quark mass, $\mathcal{I}[m_u]$, acquires a tiny, but
non-vanishing value. This is achieved via a Dirac seesaw mechanism, which is
also responsible for the generation of the small neutrino masses. Consistency
with the observed value of the up quark mass is achieved via instanton
contributions arising from QCD-like interactions. In this framework, the value
of the neutron electric dipole moment is directly related to
$\mathcal{I}[m_u]$, which, due to its common origin with the neutrino masses,
implies that the neutron electric dipole moment is likely to be measured in the
next round of experiments. We also present a supersymmetric extension of this
Dirac seesaw model to stabilize the hierarchy among the scalar mass scales
involved in this new mechanism.


Selective adsorption of first-row atoms on boron nitride nanotubes: the
  effect of localized states

  First-principles calculations reveal that the adsorption of representative
first-row atoms with different electronegativity, such as lithium (Li), carbon
(C) and fluorine (F), on zigzag single-walled boron nitride nanotubes (BNNTs)
exhibits surprising selectivity. The adsorption energy and adsorption site are
dependent upon the chemical activity of adsorbate with respect to the B and N
atoms in the host tube. In detail, the F atom prefers to be adsorbed on the top
of the B atom, the C atom is energetically favorable to stay on the bridge site
which is perpendicular to the tube-axis, and the Li atom hardly adheres to the
tube (an endothermal reaction). The adsorption behavior of these three types of
elements on BNNTs is elucidated based on the frontier molecular orbital theory.
In addition, the mechanism of modification of electronic structures of BNNTs by
adsorption is probed, and a feasible approach is proposed to tailor the
electronic properties of BNNTs.


Boundary Feedback Control of Unstable Heat Equation with Space and Time
  Dependent Coefficient

  In this paper, we study the control of the linear heat equation with a space
and time dependent coefficient function by the Dirichlet and Neumann boundary
control laws. This equation models the heat diffusion and space, time dependent
heat generation in a one dimensional rod. Without control, the system is
unstable if the coefficient function is positive and large. With boundary
control based on the state feedback, we show that for the time analytic
coefficient $a(x,t)$, the exponential stability of the system at any rate can
be achieved. It is further shown that both the control of the Dirichlet and
Neumann boundary value systems can be stabilized using this method. In doing
this, the control kernels are {\it explicitly} calculated as series of
approximation and they are used in the simulations. The numerical simulation
confirmed the theoretical arguments and the controllability of the system. The
possible future works are discussed at the end. This is the continuation of the
recent work of Liu [{\it SIAM J. Cont. Optim.} vol. 42, pp. 1033-1043] and
Smyshlyaev and Krstic [accepted by {\it Automatica}].


