Adsorption and diffusion of H2O molecule on the Be(0001) surface: A
  density-functional theory study

  Using first-principles calculations, we systematically study the adsorption
behavior of a single molecular H$_{2}$O on the Be(0001) surface. We find that
the favored molecular adsorption site is the top site with an adsorption energy
of about 0.3 eV, together with the detailed electronic structure analysis,
suggesting a weak binding strength of the H$_{2}$O/Be(0001) surface. The
adsorption interaction is mainly contributed by the overlapping between the $s$
and $p_{z}$ states of the top-layer Be atom and the molecular orbitals 1$b_{1}$
and 3$a_{1}$ of H$_{2}$O. The activation energy for H$_{2}$O diffusion on the
surface is about 0.3 eV. Meanwhile, our study indicates that no dissociation
state exists for the H$_{2}$O/Be(0001) surface.


Adsorption and dissociation of water on Zr(0001) with density-functional
  theory studies

  The adsorption and dissociation of isolated water molecule on Zr(0001)
surface are theoretically investigated for the first time by using
density-functional theory calculations. Two kinds of adsorption configurations
with almost the same adsorption energy are identified as the locally stable
states, i.e., the flat and upright configurations respectively. It is shown
that the flat adsorption states on the top site are dominated by the
1$b_{1}$-$d$ band coupling, insensitive to the azimuthal orientation. The
diffusion between adjacent top sites reveals that the water molecule is very
mobile on the surface. For the upright configuration, we find that besides the
contribution of the molecular orbitals 1$b_{1}$ and 3$a_{1}$, the
surface$\rightarrow$water charge transfer occurring across the Fermi level also
plays an important role. The dissociation of H$_{2}$O is found to be very
facile, especially for the upright configuration, in good accordance with the
attainable experimental results. The present results afford to provide a
guiding line for deeply understanding the water-induced surface corrosion of
zirconium.


Detection of a superconducting phase in a two-atom layer of hexagonal Ga
  film grown on semiconducting GaN(0001)

  The recent observation of superconducting state at atomic scale has motivated
the pursuit of exotic condensed phases in two-dimensional (2D) systems. Here we
report on a superconducting phase in two-monolayer crystalline Ga films
epitaxially grown on wide band-gap semiconductor GaN(0001). This phase exhibits
a hexagonal structure and only 0.552 nm in thickness, nevertheless, brings
about a superconducting transition temperature Tc as high as 5.4 K, confirmed
by in situ scanning tunneling spectroscopy, and ex situ electrical
magneto-transport and magnetization measurements. The anisotropy of critical
magnetic field and Berezinski-Kosterlitz-Thouless-like transition are observed,
typical for the 2D superconductivity. Our results demonstrate a novel platform
for exploring atomic-scale 2D superconductor, with great potential for
understanding of the interface superconductivity.


