Small Representations for Affine q-Schur Algebras

  When the parameter $q\in\mathbb C^*$ is not a root of unity, simple modules
of affine $q$-Schur algebras have been classified in terms of Frenkel--Mukhin's
dominant Drinfeld polynomials (\cite[4.6.8]{DDF}). We compute these Drinfeld
polynomials associated with the simple modules of an affine $q$-Schur algebra
which come from the simple modules of the corresponding $q$-Schur algebra via
the evaluation maps.


A Double Hall Algebra Approach to Affine Quantum Schur--Weyl Theory

  We investigate the structure of the double Ringel-Hall algebras associated
with cyclic quivers and its connections with quantum loop algebras of
$\mathfrak{gl}_n$, affine quantum Schur algebras and affine Hecke algebras.
This includes their Drinfeld-Jimbo type presentation, affine quantum Schur-Weyl
reciprocity, representations of affine quantum Schur algebras, and connections
with various existing works by Lusztig, Varagnolo-Vasserot, Schiffmann, Hubery,
Chari-Pressley, Frenkel-Mukhin, etc. We will also discuss conjectures on a
realization of Beilinson-Lusztig-MacPherson type and Lusztig type integral
forms for double Ringel-Hall algebras.


Potential Integral Equations in Electromagnetics

  In this work, a new integral equation (IE) based formulation is proposed
using vector and scalar potentials for electromagnetic scattering. The new
integral equations feature decoupled vector and scalar potentials that satisfy
Lorentz gauge. The decoupling of the two potentials allows low-frequency
stability. The formulation presented also results in Fredholm integral
equations of second kind. The spectral properties of second kind integral
operators leads to a well-conditioned system.


Critical onset in coherent oscillations between two weakly coupled
  Bose-Einstein condensates

  The Josephson effects in two weakly linked Bose-Einstein condensates have
been studied recently. In this letter, we study the equations derived by
Giovanazzi et. al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 4521 (2000)] focusing on the effects
of the initial acceleration and the velocity of the barrier on the ``dc''
current. We find that the dc current has lifetime which critically depends on
the moving velocity of the barrier. Moreover, the influence of the initial
acceleration is also investigated and found to be crucial for the experimental
realization of the effects.


Classical collisional trajectories as the source of strong-field double
  ionization of helium in the knee regime

  In this paper, a quasistatic model is extended to describe the double
ionization of Helium in intense linearly polarized field, yielding achieve an
insight to the two-electron correlation effect in the ionization dynamics. Our
numerical calculations reproduce the excessive double ionization and the
photoelectron spectra observed experimentally both quantitatively and
qualitatively. Moreover, it is shown that the classical collisional
trajectories are the main source of the double ionization in the knee regime
and responsible for the unusual angular distribution of the photoelectrons.


Correlated electron emission in laser-induced nonsequence double
  ionization of Helium

  In this paper, we have investigated the correlated electron emission of the
nonsequence double ionization (NSDI) in an intense linearly polarized field.
The theoretical model we employed is the semiclassical rescattering model, the
model atom we used is the helium. We find a significant correlation between
magnitude and direction of the momentum of two emission electrons, and give a
good explanation for this striking phenomenon by observing the classical
collisional trajectories. We argue that this correlation phenomenon is
universal in NSDI process, as revealed by the recent experiment on the argon.


The configuration of a topological current and physical structure: an
  application and paradigmatic evidence

  In the $\phi $-mapping theory, the topological current constructed by the
order parameters can possess different inner structure. The difference in
topology must correspond to the difference in physical structure. The
transition between different structures happens at the bifurcation point of the
topological current. In a self-interaction two-level system, the change of
topological particles corresponds to change of energy levels.


Singularity of Berry Connections Inhibits the Accuracy of Adiabatic
  Approximation

  Adiabatic approximation for quantum evolution is investigated quantitatively
with addressing its dependence on the Berry connections. We find that, in the
adiabatic limit, the adiabatic fidelity may uniformly converge to unit or
diverge manifesting the breakdown of adiabatic approximation, depending on the
type of the singularity of the Berry connections as the functions of
slowly-varying parameter $R$. When the Berry connections have a singularity of
$1/R^\sigma$ type with $\sigma < 1$, the adiabatic fidelity converges to unit
in a power-law; whereas when the singularity index $\sigma$ is larger than one,
adiabatic approximation breaks down. Two-level models are used to substantiate
our theory.


Berry Phase in Atom-Molecule Conversion Systems and Fractional Monopole

  We investigate the geometric phase or Berry phase of adiabatic quantum
evolution in an atom-molecule conversion system, and find that the Berry phase
in such system consists of two parts: the usual Berry connection term and a
novel term from the nonlinearity brought forth by the atom-molecule conversion.
The geometric phase can be viewed as the flux of the magnetic field of a
monopole through the surface enclosed by a closed path in parameter space. The
charge of the monopole, however, is found to be one third of the elementary
charge of the usual quantized monopole.


The Integral quantum loop algebra of $\mathfrak{gl}_n$

  We will construct the Lusztig form for the quantum loop algebra of
$\mathfrak{gl}_n$ by proving the conjecture \cite[3.8.6]{DDF} and establish
partially the Schur--Weyl duality at the integral level in this case. We will
also investigate the integral form of the modified quantum affine
$\mathfrak{gl}_n$ by introducing an affine stabilisation property and will lift
the canonical bases from affine quantum Schur algebras to a canonical basis for
this integral form. As an application of our theory, we will also discuss the
integral form of the modified extended quantum affine $\mathfrak{sl}_n$ and
construct its canonical basis to verify a conjecture of Lusztig in this case.


Quantum affine $\frak{gl}_n$ via Hecke algebras

  We use the Hecke algebras of affine symmetric groups and their associated
Schur algebras to construct a new algebra through a basis, and a set of
generators and explicit multiplication formulas of basis elements by
generators. We prove that this algebra is isomorphic to the quantum enveloping
algebra of the loop algebra of $\mathfrak {gl}_n$. Though this construction is
motivated by the work \cite{BLM} by Beilinson--Lusztig--MacPherson for quantum
$\frak{gl}_n$, our approach is purely algebraic and combinatorial, independent
of the geometric method which seems to work only for quantum $\mathfrak{gl}_n$
and quantum affine $\mathfrak{sl}_n$. As an application, we discover a
presentation of the Ringel--Hall algebra of a cyclic quiver by semisimple
generators and their multiplications by the defining basis elements.


Representations of little $q$-Schur algebras

  In \cite{DFW} and \cite{Fu07}, little $q$-Schur algebras were introduced as
homomorphic images of the infinitesimal quantum groups. In this paper, we will
investigate representations of these algebras. We will classify simple modules
for little $q$-Schur algebras and classify semisimple little $q$-Schur
algebras. Moreover, through the classification of the blocks of little
$q$-Schur algebras for $n=2$, we will determine little $q$-Schur algebras of
finite representation type in the odd roots of unity case.


Bayesian Estimation Based Parameter Estimation for Composite Load

  Accurate identification of parameters of load models is essential in power
system computations, including simulation, prediction, and stability and
reliability analysis. Conventional point estimation based composite load
modeling approaches suffer from disturbances and noises and provide limited
information of the system dynamics. In this work, a statistic (Bayesian
Estimation) based distribution estimation approach is proposed for both static
(ZIP) and dynamic (Induction Motor) load modeling. When dealing with multiple
parameters, Gibbs sampling method is employed. In each iteration, the proposal
samples each parameter while keeps others fixed. The proposed method provides a
distribution estimation of load models coefficients and is robust to
measurement errors.


Epidemic spread in weighted networks

  We study the detailed epidemic spreading process in scale-free networks with
weight that denote familiarity between two people or computers. The result
shows that spreading velocity reaches a peak quickly then decays representing
power-law time behavior, and comparing to non-weighted networks, precise
hierarchical dynamics is not found although the nodes with larger strength is
preferential to be infected.


Abstractions and sensor design in partial-information, reactive
  controller synthesis

  Automated synthesis of reactive control protocols from temporal logic
specifications has recently attracted considerable attention in various
applications in, for example, robotic motion planning, network management, and
hardware design. An implicit and often unrealistic assumption in this past work
is the availability of complete and precise sensing information during the
execution of the controllers. In this paper, we use an abstraction procedure
for systems with partial observation and propose a formalism to investigate
effects of limitations in sensing. The abstraction procedure enables the
existing synthesis methods with partial observation to be applicable and
efficient for systems with infinite (or finite but large number of) states.
This formalism enables us to systematically discover sensing modalities
necessary in order to render the underlying synthesis problems feasible. We use
counterexamples, which witness unrealizability potentially due to the
limitations in sensing and the coarseness in the abstract system, and
interpolation-based techniques to refine the model and the sensing modalities,
i.e., to identify new sensors to be included, in such synthesis problems. We
demonstrate the method on examples from robotic motion planning.


Pareto efficiency in synthesizing shared autonomy policies with temporal
  logic constraints

  In systems in which control authority is shared by an autonomous controller
and a human operator, it is important to find solutions that achieve a
desirable system performance with a reasonable workload for the human operator.
We formulate a shared autonomy system capable of capturing the interaction and
switching control between an autonomous controller and a human operator, as
well as the evolution of the operator's cognitive state during control
execution. To trade-off human's effort and the performance level, e.g.,
measured by the probability of satisfying the underlying temporal logic
specification, a two-stage policy synthesis algorithm is proposed for
generating Pareto efficient coordination and control policies with respect to
user specified weights. We integrate the Tchebychev scalarization method for
multi-objective optimization methods to obtain a better coverage of the set of
Pareto efficient solutions than linear scalarization methods.


Optimal control in Markov decision processes via distributed
  optimization

  Optimal control synthesis in stochastic systems with respect to quantitative
temporal logic constraints can be formulated as linear programming problems.
However, centralized synthesis algorithms do not scale to many practical
systems. To tackle this issue, we propose a decomposition-based distributed
synthesis algorithm. By decomposing a large-scale stochastic system modeled as
a Markov decision process into a collection of interacting sub-systems, the
original control problem is formulated as a linear programming problem with a
sparse constraint matrix, which can be solved through distributed optimization
methods. Additionally, we propose a decomposition algorithm which automatically
exploits, if exists, the modular structure in a given large-scale system. We
illustrate the proposed methods through robotic motion planning examples.


Computational methods for stochastic control with metric interval
  temporal logic specifications

  This paper studies an optimal control problem for continuous-time stochastic
systems subject to reachability objectives specified in a subclass of metric
interval temporal logic specifications, a temporal logic with real-time
constraints. We propose a probabilistic method for synthesizing an optimal
control policy that maximizes the probability of satisfying a specification
based on a discrete approximation of the underlying stochastic system. First,
we show that the original problem can be formulated as a stochastic optimal
control problem in a state space augmented with finite memory and states of
some clock variables. Second, we present a numerical method for computing an
optimal policy with which the given specification is satisfied with the maximal
probability in point-based semantics in the discrete approximation of the
underlying system. We show that the policy obtained in the discrete
approximation converges to the optimal one for satisfying the specification in
the continuous or dense-time semantics as the discretization becomes finer in
both state and time. Finally, we illustrate our approach with a robotic motion
planning example.


Optimal Temporal Logic Planning in Probabilistic Semantic Maps

  This paper considers robot motion planning under temporal logic constraints
in probabilistic maps obtained by semantic simultaneous localization and
mapping (SLAM). The uncertainty in a map distribution presents a great
challenge for obtaining correctness guarantees with respect to the linear
temporal logic (LTL) specification. We show that the problem can be formulated
as an optimal control problem in which both the semantic map and the logic
formula evaluation are stochastic. Our first contribution is to reduce the
stochastic control problem for a subclass of LTL to a deterministic shortest
path problem by introducing a confidence parameter $delta$. A robot trajectory
obtained from the deterministic problem is guaranteed to have minimum cost and
to satisfy the logic specification in the true environment with probability
$delta$. Our second contribution is to design an admissible heuristic function
that guides the planning in the deterministic problem towards satisfying the
temporal logic specification. This allows us to obtain an optimal and very
efficient solution using the A* algorithm. The performance and correctness of
our approach are demonstrated in a simulated semantic environment using a
differential-drive robot.


Nuclear Fusion in Laser-Driven Counter-Streaming Collisionless Plasmas

  Nuclear fusion reactions are the most important processes in nature to power
stars and produce new elements, and lie at the center of the understanding of
nucleosynthesis in the universe. It is critically important to study the
reactions in full plasma environments that are close to true astrophysical
conditions. By using laser-driven counter-streaming collisionless plasmas, we
studied the fusion D$+$D$\rightarrow n +^3$He in a Gamow-like window around 27
keV. The results show that astrophysical nuclear reaction yield can be
modulated significantly by the self-generated electromagnetic fields and the
collective motion of the plasma. This plasma-version mini-collider may provide
a novel tool for studies of astrophysics-interested nuclear reactions in plasma
with tunable energies in earth-based laboratories.


Importance sampling-based approximate optimal planning and control

  In this paper, we propose a sampling-based planning and optimal control
method of nonlinear systems under non-differentiable constraints. Motivated by
developing scalable planning algorithms, we consider the optimal motion plan to
be a feedback controller that can be approximated by a weighted sum of given
bases. Given this approximate optimal control formulation, our main
contribution is to introduce importance sampling, specifically, model-reference
adaptive search algorithm, to iteratively compute the optimal weight
parameters, i.e., the weights corresponding to the optimal policy function
approximation given chosen bases. The key idea is to perform the search by
iteratively estimating a parametrized distribution which converges to a Dirac's
Delta that infinitely peaks on the global optimal weights. Then, using this
direct policy search, we incorporated trajectory-based verification to ensure
that, for a class of nonlinear systems, the obtained policy is not only optimal
but robust to bounded disturbances. The correctness and efficiency of the
methods are demonstrated through numerical experiments including linear systems
with a nonlinear cost function and motion planning for a Dubins car.


Berry Phase of Nonlinear Correction

  We investigate the geometric phase or Berry phase of adiabatic quantum
evolution in the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) systems governed by nonlinear
Gross-Pitaevskii(GP) equations. We study how this phase is modified by the
nonlinearity and find that the Bogoliubov fluctuations around the eigenstates
are accumulated during the nonlinear adiabatic evolution and contribute a
finite phase of geometric nature. A two-mode BEC model is used to illustrate
our theory. Our theory is applicable to other nonlinear systems such as
paraxial wave equation for nonlinear optics and Ginzburg-Landau equations for
complex order parameters in condensed-matter physics.


Symbolic Planning and Control Using Game Theory and Grammatical
  Inference

  This paper presents an approach that brings together game theory with
grammatical inference and discrete abstractions in order to synthesize control
strategies for hybrid dynamical systems performing tasks in partially unknown
but rule-governed adversarial environments. The combined formulation guarantees
that a system specification is met if (a) the true model of the environment is
in the class of models inferable from a positive presentation, (b) a
characteristic sample is observed, and (c) the task specification is
satisfiable given the capabilities of the system (agent) and the environment.


Environment-Independent Task Specifications via GLTL

  We propose a new task-specification language for Markov decision processes
that is designed to be an improvement over reward functions by being
environment independent. The language is a variant of Linear Temporal Logic
(LTL) that is extended to probabilistic specifications in a way that permits
approximations to be learned in finite time. We provide several small
environments that demonstrate the advantages of our geometric LTL (GLTL)
language and illustrate how it can be used to specify standard
reinforcement-learning tasks straightforwardly.


Comparison of quantum kinetic theory and time-dependent Dirac equation
  approaches in vacuum pair production and the bound states resonance enhanced
  mechanism

  A remarkable quantitative agreement is found between the non-Markovian
quantum kinetic approach and the time-dependent Dirac equation approach for a
large region of Keldysh parameter, in the investigation of electron-positron
pair production in the electric fields which is spatially homogeneous and
envelope pulse shaped. If a sub-critical bound potential is immersed in this
background field, the TDDE results show that the creation probability will be
enhanced by the bound states resonance by two orders of magnitude. We also
establish a computing resources greatly saved TDDE formalism for spatially
homogeneous field.


Probably Approximately Correct MDP Learning and Control With Temporal
  Logic Constraints

  We consider synthesis of control policies that maximize the probability of
satisfying given temporal logic specifications in unknown, stochastic
environments. We model the interaction between the system and its environment
as a Markov decision process (MDP) with initially unknown transition
probabilities. The solution we develop builds on the so-called model-based
probably approximately correct Markov decision process (PAC-MDP) methodology.
The algorithm attains an $\varepsilon$-approximately optimal policy with
probability $1-\delta$ using samples (i.e. observations), time and space that
grow polynomially with the size of the MDP, the size of the automaton
expressing the temporal logic specification, $\frac{1}{\varepsilon}$,
$\frac{1}{\delta}$ and a finite time horizon. In this approach, the system
maintains a model of the initially unknown MDP, and constructs a product MDP
based on its learned model and the specification automaton that expresses the
temporal logic constraints. During execution, the policy is iteratively updated
using observation of the transitions taken by the system. The iteration
terminates in finitely many steps. With high probability, the resulting policy
is such that, for any state, the difference between the probability of
satisfying the specification under this policy and the optimal one is within a
predefined bound.


Integrating active sensing into reactive synthesis with temporal logic
  constraints under partial observations

  We introduce the notion of online reactive planning with sensing actions for
systems with temporal logic constraints in partially observable and dynamic
environments. With incomplete information on the dynamic environment, reactive
controller synthesis amounts to solving a two-player game with partial
observations, which has impractically computational complexity. To alleviate
the high computational burden, online replanning via sensing actions avoids
solving the strategy in the reactive system under partial observations.
Instead, we only solve for a strategy that ensures a given temporal logic
specification can be satisfied had the system have complete observations of its
environment. Such a strategy is then transformed into one which makes control
decisions based on the observed sequence of states (of the interacting system
and its environment). When the system encounters a belief---a set including all
possible hypotheses the system has for the current state---for which the
observation-based strategy is undefined, a sequence of sensing actions are
triggered, chosen by an active sensing strategy, to reduce the uncertainty in
the system's belief. We show that by alternating between the observation-based
strategy and the active sensing strategy, under a mild technical assumption of
the set of sensors in the system, the given temporal logic specification can be
satisfied with probability 1.


Deep Q-Networks for Accelerating the Training of Deep Neural Networks

  In this paper, we propose a principled deep reinforcement learning (RL)
approach that is able to accelerate the convergence rate of general deep neural
networks (DNNs). With our approach, a deep RL agent (synonym for optimizer in
this work) is used to automatically learn policies about how to schedule
learning rates during the optimization of a DNN. The state features of the
agent are learned from the weight statistics of the optimizee during training.
The reward function of this agent is designed to learn policies that minimize
the optimizee's training time given a certain performance goal. The actions of
the agent correspond to changing the learning rate for the optimizee during
training. As far as we know, this is the first attempt to use deep RL to learn
how to optimize a large-sized DNN. We perform extensive experiments on a
standard benchmark dataset and demonstrate the effectiveness of the policies
learned by our approach.


DrMAD: Distilling Reverse-Mode Automatic Differentiation for Optimizing
  Hyperparameters of Deep Neural Networks

  The performance of deep neural networks is well-known to be sensitive to the
setting of their hyperparameters. Recent advances in reverse-mode automatic
differentiation allow for optimizing hyperparameters with gradients. The
standard way of computing these gradients involves a forward and backward pass
of computations. However, the backward pass usually needs to consume
unaffordable memory to store all the intermediate variables to exactly reverse
the forward training procedure. In this work we propose a simple but effective
method, DrMAD, to distill the knowledge of the forward pass into a shortcut
path, through which we approximately reverse the training trajectory.
Experiments on several image benchmark datasets show that DrMAD is at least 45
times faster and consumes 100 times less memory compared to state-of-the-art
methods for optimizing hyperparameters with minimal compromise to its
effectiveness. To the best of our knowledge, DrMAD is the first research
attempt to make it practical to automatically tune thousands of hyperparameters
of deep neural networks. The code can be downloaded from
https://github.com/bigaidream-projects/drmad


Role of Particle Interactions in the Feshbach Conversion of Fermion
  Atoms to Bosonic Molecules

  We investigate the Feshbach conversion of fermion atomic pairs to condensed
boson molecules with a microscopic model that accounts the repulsive
interactions among all the particles involved. We find that the conversion
efficiency is enhanced by the interaction between boson molecules while
suppressed by the interactions between fermion atoms and between atom and
molecule. In certain cases, the combined effect of these interactions leads to
a ceiling of less than 100% on the conversion efficiency even in the adiabatic
limit. Our model predicts a non-monotonic dependence of the efficiency on mean
atomic density. Our theory agrees well with recent experiments on $^6$Li and
$^{40}$K.


Many-Body Effects on Nonadiabatic Feshbach Conversion in Bosonic Systems

  We investigate the dynamics of converting cold bosonic atoms to molecules
when an external magnetic field is swept across a Feshbach resonance. Our
analysis relies on a zero temperature quantum microscopic model that accounts
for many-body effects, triggering the association process. We show that the
picture of two-body molecular production depicted by Landau-Zener model is
significantly altered due to many-body effects. In nonadiabatic regime, we
derive an analytic expression for molecular conversion efficiency that explains
the discrepancy between the prediction of Landau-Zener formula and experimental
data[Hodby et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 94}, 120402 (2005)]. Our theory is
further extended to the formation of heteronuclear diatomic molecules and gives
some interesting predictions.


Epidemic reemergence in adaptive complex networks

  The dynamic nature of system gives rise to dynamical features of epidemic
spreading, such as oscillation and bistability. In this paper, by studying the
epidemic spreading in growing networks, in which susceptible nodes may
adaptively break the connections with infected ones yet avoid getting isolated,
we reveal a new phenomenon - \emph{epidemic reemergence}, where the number of
infected nodes is incubated at a low level for a long time and then bursts up
for a short time. The process may repeat several times before the infection
finally vanishes. Simulation results show that all the three factors, namely
the network growth, the connection breaking and the isolation avoidance, are
necessary for epidemic reemergence to happen. We present a simple theoretical
analysis to explain the process of reemergence in detail. Our study may offer
some useful insights helping explain the phenomenon of repeated epidemic
explosions.


Proximity-effect-induced superconductivity in topological
  insulator-related material Bi2Se3

  We have studied the electron transport properties of topological
insulator-related material Bi2Se3 near the superconducting Pb-Bi2Se3 interface,
and found that a superconducting state is induced over an extended volume in
Bi2Se3. This state can carry a Josephson supercurrent, and demonstrates a
gap-like structure in the conductance spectra as probed by a normal-metal
electrode. The establishment of the gap is not by confining the electrons into
a narrow space close to the superconductor-normal metal interface, as
previously observed in other systems, but presumably via electron-electron
attractive interaction in Bi2Se3.


Majorana fermions in a superconducting Mobius strip

  Recently, much attention has been paid to search for Majorana fermions in
solid-state systems. Among various proposals there is one based on
radio-frequency superconducting quantum interference devices (rf-SQUIDs), in
which the appearance of 4$\pi$-period energy-phase relations is regarded as
smoking-gun evidence of Majorana fermion states. Here we report the observation
of truncated 4$\pi$-period (i.e., 2$\pi$-period but fully skewed) oscillatory
patterns of contact resistance on rf-SQUIDs constructed on the surface of
three-dimensional topological insulator Bi$_2$Te$_3$. The results reveal the
existence of 1/2 fractional modes of Cooper pairs and the occurrence of parity
switchings, both of which are necessary signatures accompanied with the
formation of Majorana fermion states.


Decoupled Potential Integral Equations for Electromagnetic Scattering
  from Dielectric Objects

  Recent work on developing novel integral equation formulations has involved
using potentials as opposed to fields. This is a consequence of the additional
flexibility offered by using potentials to develop well conditioned systems.
Most of the work in this arena has wrestled with developing this formulation
for perfectly conducting objects (Vico et al., 2014 and Liu et al., 2015), with
recent effort made to addressing similar problems for dielectrics (Li et al.,
2017). In this paper, we present well-conditioned decoupled potential integral
equation (DPIE) formulated for electromagnetic scattering from homogeneous
dielectric objects, a fully developed version of that presented in the
conference communication (Li et al., 2017). The formulation is based on
boundary conditions derived for decoupled boundary conditions on the scalar and
vector potentials. The resulting DPIE is the second kind integral equation, and
does not suffer from either low frequency or dense mesh breakdown. Analytical
properties of the DPIE are studied. Results on the sphere analysis are provided
to demonstrate the conditioning and spectrum of the resulting linear system.


Nonlinear Shape Regression For Filtering Segmentation Results From
  Calcium Imaging

  A shape filter is presented to repair segmentation results obtained in
calcium imaging of neurons in vivo. This post-segmentation algorithm can
automatically smooth the shapes obtained from a preliminary segmentation, while
precluding the cases where two neurons are counted as one combined component.
The shape filter is realized using a square-root velocity to project the shapes
on a shape manifold in which distances between shapes are based on elastic
changes. Two data-driven weighting methods are proposed to achieve a trade-off
between shape smoothness and consistency with the data. Intuitive comparisons
of proposed methods via projection onto Cartesian maps demonstrate the
smoothing ability of the shape filter. Quantitative measures also prove the
superiority of our methods over models that do not employ any weighting
criterion.


The new mode of instability in viscous high-speed boundary layer flows

  The new mode of instability found by Tunney et al. is studied with viscous
stability theory in this article. When the high-speed boundary layer is subject
to certain values of favorable pressure gradient and wall heating, a new mode
becomes unstable due to the appearance of the streamwise velocity overshoot
($U(y)>U_\infty$) in the base flow. The present study shows that under
practical Reynolds numbers, the new mode can hardly co-exist with conventional
first mode and Mack's second mode. Due to the requirement for additional wall
heating, the new mode may only lead to laminar-turbulent transition under
experimental (artificial) conditions.


Dataflow-based Joint Quantization of Weights and Activations for Deep
  Neural Networks

  This paper addresses a challenging problem - how to reduce energy consumption
without incurring performance drop when deploying deep neural networks (DNNs)
at the inference stage. In order to alleviate the computation and storage
burdens, we propose a novel dataflow-based joint quantization approach with the
hypothesis that a fewer number of quantization operations would incur less
information loss and thus improve the final performance. It first introduces a
quantization scheme with efficient bit-shifting and rounding operations to
represent network parameters and activations in low precision. Then it
restructures the network architectures to form unified modules for optimization
on the quantized model. Extensive experiments on ImageNet and KITTI validate
the effectiveness of our model, demonstrating that state-of-the-art results for
various tasks can be achieved by this quantized model. Besides, we designed and
synthesized an RTL model to measure the hardware costs among various
quantization methods. For each quantization operation, it reduces area cost by
about 15 times and energy consumption by about 9 times, compared to a strong
baseline.


Evidence of Majorana Zero Modes in Josephson Trijunctions

  In search of fault-tolerant topological quantum computation (TQC), zero-bias
conductance peak as a necessary signature of Majorana zero modes (MZMs) has
been observed in a number of solid-state systems. Here, we present the
signature of MZMs from a phase-sensitive experiment on Josephson trijunctions
constructed on the surface of three-dimensional topological insulators. We
observed that the minigap at the center of the trijunction is protected to
close over extended regions in phase space, supporting in principle the
Majorana phase diagram proposed by Fu and Kane in 2008. Our study paves the way
for further braiding MZMs and exploring TQC on a scalable two-dimensional
platform.


Periodic Modulation Effect on Self-Trapping of Two weakly coupled
  Bose-Einstein Condensates

  With phase space analysis approach, we investigate thoroughly the
self-trapping phenomenon for two weakly coupled Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC)
in a symmetric double-well potential. We identify two kinds of self-trapping by
their different relative phase behavior. With applying a periodic modulation on
the energy bias of the system we find the occurrence of the self-trapping can
be controlled, saying, the transition parameters can be adjusted effectively by
the periodic modulation. Analytic expressions for the dependence of the
transition parameters on the modulation parameters are derived for high and low
frequency modulations. For an intermediate frequency modulation, we find the
resonance between the periodic modulation and nonlinear Rabi oscillation
dramatically affects the tunnelling dynamics and demonstrate many novel
phenomena. Finally, we study the effects of many-body quantum fluctuation on
self-trapping and discuss the possible experimental realization of the model.


Quantum Entanglement Manifestation of Transition to Nonlinear
  Self-trapping for Bose-Einstein Condensates in a Symmetric Double-Well

  We investigate the nonlinear self-trapping phenomenon of the Bose-Einstein
condensates (BEC) in a symmetric double-well, emphasizing on its behind
dynamical phase transition. With increasing the nonlinear parameter depicting
the interaction between the degenerate atoms the BEC turns to be self-trapped
manifesting an asymmetric distribution of the atomic density profile. Essence
of this phenomenon is revealed to be a continuous phase transition and
underlying critical behavior is studied analytically and found to follow a
logarithm scaling-law. We then go beyond the mean field treatment and extend to
discuss the effect of the many-body quantum fluctuation on the transition. It
is found that the transition point is shifted and the scaling-law is broken. In
particular, the quantum phase transition is accompanied by the change of the
entanglement entropy which is found to reach maximum at transition point.
Behind physics is revealed.


Quantum $\frak {gl}_\infty$, infinite $q$-Schur algebras and their
  representations

  In this paper, we investigate the structure and representations of the
quantum group ${\mathbf{U}(\infty)}=\mathbf U_\upsilon(\frak{gl}_\infty)$. We
will present a realization for $\mathbf{U}(\infty)$, following
Beilinson--Lusztig--MacPherson (BLM) \cite{BLM}, and show that the natural
algebra homomorphism $\zeta_r$ from $\mathbf{U}(\infty)$ to the infinite
$q$-Schur algebra ${\boldsymbol{\mathcal S}}(\infty,r)$ is not surjective for
any $r\geq 1$. We will give a BLM type realization for the image
$\mathbf{U}(\infty,r):=\zeta_r(\mathbf{U}(\infty))$ and discuss its
presentation in terms of generators and relations. We further construct a
certain completion algebra $\hat{\boldsymbol{\mathcal K}}^\dagger(\infty)$ so
that $\zeta_r$ can be extended to an algebra epimorphism
$\tilde\zeta_r:\hat{\boldsymbol{\mathcal
K}}^\dagger(\infty)\to{\boldsymbol{\mathcal S}}(\infty,r)$. Finally we will
investigate the representation theory of ${\bf U}(\infty)$, especially the
polynomial representations of ${\bf U}(\infty)$.


Adiabatic Fidelity for Atom-Molecule Conversion in a Nonlinear
  Three-Level Λ-system

  We investigate the dynamics of the population transfer for atom-molecule
three-level $\Lambda$-system on stimulated Raman adiabatic passage(STIRAP). We
find that the adiabatic fidelity for the coherent population trapping(CPT)
state or dark state, as the function of the adiabatic parameter, approaches to
unit in a power law. The power exponent however is much less than the
prediction of linear adiabatic theorem. We further discuss how to achieve
higher adiabatic fidelity for the dark state through optimizing the external
parameters of STIRAP. Our discussions are helpful to gain higher atom-molecule
conversion yield in practical experiments.


Rosen-Zener interferometry with Ultracold Atoms

  We propose a time-domain "interferometer" based on ultracold Bose atoms
loaded on a double well potential. By the adiabatic Rosen-Zener process, the
barrier between two wells is ramped down slowly, held for a while, then ramped
back. Starting with a coherent state of double well system, the final
occupations on one well show interesting interference fringes in the
time-domain. The fringe pattern is sensitive to the initial state, the
interatomic interaction, and the external forces such as gravity which can
change the shape of the double well. In this sense, this interferometric scheme
has the potentials for precision measurements with ultracold atoms. The
underlying mechanism is revealed and possible applications are discussed.


Pressure of Degenerate and Relativistic electrons in a superhigh
  magnetic field

  Based on our previous work, we deduce a general formula for pressure of
degenerate and relativistic electrons,Pe, which is suitable for superhigh
magnetic fields, discuss the quantization of Landau levels of electrons, and
consider the quantum electrodynam-ic(QED) effects on the equations of states
(EOSs) for different matter systems. The main conclusions are as follows:Pe is
related to the magnetic field B, matter density ?, and electron fraction Ye ;
the stronger the magnetic field, the higher the electron pressure becomes; the
high electron pressure could be caused by high Fermi energy of electrons in a
superhigh magnetic field; compared with a common radio pulsar, a magnetar could
be a more compact oblate spheroid-like deformed neutron star due to the
anisotropic total pressure; and an increase in the maximum mass of a magnetar
is expected because of the positive contribution of the magnetic field energy
to the EOS of the star.


Learning Low-Complexity Autoregressive Models via Proximal Alternating
  Minimization

  We consider the estimation of the state transition matrix in vector
autoregressive models, when time sequence data is limited but nonsequence
steady-state data is abundant. To leverage both sources of data, we formulate
the least squares minimization problem regularized by a Lyapunov penalty. We
impose cardinality or rank constraints to reduce the complexity of the
autoregressive model. We solve the resulting nonconvex, nonsmooth problem by
using the proximal alternating linearization method (PALM). We show that PALM
is globally convergent to a critical point and that the estimation error
monotonically decreases. Furthermore, we obtain explicit formulas for the
proximal operators to facilitate the implementation of PALM. We demonstrate the
effectiveness of the developed method on synthetic and real-world data. Our
experiments show that PALM outperforms the gradient projection method in both
computational efficiency and solution quality.


Generalized Debye Sources Based EFIE Solver on Subdivision Surfaces

  The electric field integral equation is a well known workhorse for obtaining
fields scattered by a perfect electric conducting (PEC) object. As a result,
the nuances and challenges of solving this equation have been examined for a
while. Two recent papers motivate the effort presented in this paper. Unlike
traditional work that uses equivalent currents defined on surfaces, recent
research proposes a technique that results in well conditioned systems by
employing generalized Debye sources (GDS) as unknowns. In a complementary
effort, some of us developed a method that exploits the same representation for
both the geometry (subdivision surface representations) and functions defined
on the geometry, also known as isogeometric analysis (IGA). The challenge in
generalizing GDS method to a discretized geometry is the complexity of the
intermediate operators. However, thanks to our earlier work on subdivision
surfaces, the additional smoothness of geometric representation permits
discretizing these intermediate operations. In this paper, we employ both ideas
to present a well conditioned GDS-EFIE. Here, the intermediate surface
Laplacian is well discretized by using subdivision basis. Likewise, using
subdivision basis to represent the sources, results in an efficient and
accurate IGA framework. Numerous results are presented to demonstrate the
efficacy of the approach.


Constructions of Optimal Cyclic $(r,δ)$ Locally Repairable Codes

  A code is said to be a $r$-local locally repairable code (LRC) if each of its
coordinates can be repaired by accessing at most $r$ other coordinates. When
some of the $r$ coordinates are also erased, the $r$-local LRC can not
accomplish the local repair, which leads to the concept of
$(r,\delta)$-locality. A $q$-ary $[n, k]$ linear code $\cC$ is said to have
$(r, \delta)$-locality ($\delta\ge 2$) if for each coordinate $i$, there exists
a punctured subcode of $\cC$ with support containing $i$, whose length is at
most $r + \delta - 1$, and whose minimum distance is at least $\delta$. The
$(r, \delta)$-LRC can tolerate $\delta-1$ erasures in total, which degenerates
to a $r$-local LRC when $\delta=2$. A $q$-ary $(r,\delta)$ LRC is called
optimal if it meets the Singleton-like bound for $(r,\delta)$-LRCs. A class of
optimal $q$-ary cyclic $r$-local LRCs with lengths $n\mid q-1$ were constructed
by Tamo, Barg, Goparaju and Calderbank based on the $q$-ary Reed-Solomon codes.
In this paper, we construct a class of optimal $q$-ary cyclic $(r,\delta)$-LRCs
($\delta\ge 2$) with length $n\mid q-1$, which generalizes the results of Tamo
\emph{et al.} Moreover, we construct a new class of optimal $q$-ary cyclic
$r$-local LRCs with lengths $n\mid q+1$ and a new class of optimal $q$-ary
cyclic $(r,\delta)$-LRCs ($\delta\ge 2$) with lengths $n\mid q+1$. The
constructed optimal LRCs with length $n=q+1$ have the best-known length $q+1$
for the given finite field with size $q$ when the minimum distance is larger
than $4$.


On the Weight Hierarchy of Locally Repairable Codes

  An $(n,k,r)$ \emph{locally repairable code} (LRC) is an $[n,k,d]$ linear code
where every code symbol can be repaired from at most $r$ other code symbols. An
LRC is said to be optimal if the minimum distance attains the Singleton-like
bound $d \le n-k-\lceil k/r \rceil +2$. The \emph{generalized Hamming weights}
(GHWs) of linear codes are fundamental parameters which have many useful
applications. Generally it is difficult to determine the GHWs of linear codes.
In this paper, we study the GHWs of LRCs. Firstly, we obtain a generalized
Singleton-like bound on the $i$-th $(1\le i \le k)$ GHWs of general $(n,k,r)$
LRCs. Then, it is shown that for an optimal $(n,k,r)$ LRC with $r \mid k$, its
weight hierarchy can be completely determined, and the $i$-th GHW of an optimal
$(n,k,r)$ LRC with $r \mid k$ attains the proposed generalized Singleton-like
bound for all $1\le i \le k$. For an optimal $(n,k,r)$ LRC with $r \nmid k$, we
give lower bounds on the GHWs of the LRC and its dual code. Finally, two
general bounds on linear codes in terms of the GHWs are presented. Moreover, it
is also shown that some previous results on the bounds of minimum distances of
linear codes can also be explained or refined in terms of the GHWs.


New ZZ Ceti stars from the LAMOST survey

  The spectroscopic sky survey carried out by the Large Sky Area Multi-Object
Fiber Spectroscopic Telescope (LAMOST) provides the largest stellar spectra
library in the world until now. A large number of new DA white dwarfs had been
identified based on the LAMOST spectra. The effective temperature ($T_{\rm
eff}$) and surface gravity ($\log g$) of most DA white dwarfs were determined
and published in the catalogs, e.g. Zhao et al. (2013), Rebassa-Mansergas et
al. (2015), Gentile Fusillo et al. (2015) and Guo et al. (2015). We selected ZZ
Ceti candidates from the published catalogs by considering whether their
$T_{\rm eff}$ are situated in the ZZ Ceti instability strip. The follow-up
time-series photometric observations for the candidates were performed in 2015
and 2016. Four stars: LAMOST J004628.31+343319.90, LAMOST J062159.49+252335.9,
LAMOST J010302.46+433756.2 and LAMOST J013033.90+273757.9 are finally confirmed
to be new ZZ Ceti stars. They show dominant peaks with amplitudes rising above
the 99.9% confidence level in the amplitude spectra. As LAMOST
J004628.31+343319.90 has an estimated mass of $\sim$ 0.40 $M_{\odot}$ and
LAMOST J013033.90+273757.9 has a mass of $\sim$ 0.45 $M_{\odot}$ derived from
their $\log g$ values, these two stars are inferred to be potential helium-core
white dwarfs.


