On Lp Estimates in Homogenization of Elliptic Equations of Maxwell's
  Type

  For a family of second-order elliptic systems of Maxwell's type with rapidly
oscillating periodic coefficients in a $C^{1, \alpha}$ domain $\Omega$, we
establish uniform estimates of solutions $u_\varep$ and $\nabla \times
u_\varep$ in $L^p(\Omega)$ for $1<p\le \infty$. The proof relies on the uniform
$W^{1,p}$ and Lipschitz estimates for solutions of scalar elliptic equations
with periodic coefficients.


Regularity of structure sheaves of varieties with isolated singularities

  Let $X\subseteq \mathbb{P}^N$ be a non-degenerate normal projective variety
of codimension $e$ and degree $d$ with isolated $\mathbb{Q}$-Gorenstein
singularities. We prove that the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity
$\text{reg}(\mathcal{O}_{X})\le d-e$, as predicted by the Eisenbud-Goto
conjecture. Then we classify the extremal and the next to extremal cases.


Topological correspondence of multiple ergodic averages of nilpotent
  group actions

  Let $(X,\Gamma)$ be a topological system, where $\Gamma$ is a nilpotent group
generated by $T_1,\ldots, T_d$ such that for each $T\in \Gamma$, $T\neq
e_\Gamma$, $(X,T)$ is weakly mixing and minimal. For $d,k\in \mathbb{N}$, let
$p_{i,j}(n), 1\le i\le k, 1\le j\le d$ be polynomials with rational
coefficients taking integer values on the integers and $p_{i,j}(0)=0$. We show
that if the expressions $g_i(n)=T_1^{p_{i,1}(n)}\cdots T_d^{p_{i,d}(n)}$
depends nontrivially on $n$ for $i=1,2,\cdots,k$, and for all $i\neq j\in
\{1,2,\ldots,k\}$ the expressions $g_i(n)g_j(n)^{-1}$ depend nontrivially on
$n$, then there is a residual set $X_0$ of $X$ such that for all $x\in X_0$
\begin{equation*} \{(g_1(n)x, g_2(n)x,\ldots, g_k(n)x)\in X^k:n\in \mathbb{Z}\}
\end{equation*} is dense in $X^k$.


Solution of the anisotropic porous medium equation in $R^n$ under an
  $L^1$-initial value

  Consider the anisotropic porous medium equation,
$u_t=\sum\limits_{i=1}^n(u^{m_i})_{x_ix_i},$ where $m_i>0, (i=1,2,...,n)$
satisfying $\min\limits_{1\le i\le n}\{m_i\}\le 1,$
$\sum\limits_{i=1}^nm_i>n-2,$ and $\max\limits_{1\le i\le n}\{m_i\}\le
\frac{1}{n}(2+\sum\limits_{i=1}^nm_i).$ Assuming that the initial data belong
only to $L^1(\Re^n)$, we establish the existence and uniqueness of the solution
for the Cauchy problem in the space, $C([0,\infty), L^1(\Re^n))\cap
C(\Re^n\times(0,\infty))\cap L^\infty(\Re^n\times[\epsilon,\infty)),$ where
$\epsilon>0$ may be arbitrary. We also show a comparison principle for such
solutions. Furthermore, we prove that the solution converges to zero in the
space $L^\infty(\Re^n)$ as the time goes to infinity.


On the universal family of Hilbert schemes of points on a surface

  For a smooth quasi-projective surface $X$ and an integer $n\ge 3$, we show
that the universal family $Z^n$ over the Hilbert scheme $\text{Hilb}^{n}(X)$ of
$n$ points has non $\mathbb{Q}$-Gorenstein, rational singularities, and that
the Samuel multiplicity $\mu$ at a closed point on $Z^n$ can be computed in
terms of the dimension of the socle. We also show that $\mu\le n$.


Raman Scattering Study of the Lattice Dynamics of Superconducting LiFeAs

  We report an investigation of the lattice dynamical properties of LiFeAs
using inelastic light scattering. Five out of the six expected phonon modes are
observed. The temperature evolution of their frequencies and linewidths is in
good agreement with an anharmonic-decay model. We find no evidence for
substantial electron-phonon coupling, and no superconductivity-induced phonon
anomalies.


Regionally proximal relation of order d is an equivalence one for
  minimal systems and a combinatorial consequence

  By proving the minimality of face transformations acting on the diagonal
points and searching the points allowed in the minimal sets, it is shown that
the regionally proximal relation of order $d$, $\RP^{[d]}$, is an equivalence
relation for minimal systems. Moreover, the lifting of $\RP^{[d]}$ between two
minimal systems is obtained, which implies that the factor induced by
$\RP^{[d]}$ is the maximal $d$-step nilfactor. The above results extend the
same conclusions proved by Host, Kra and Maass for minimal distal systems.
  A combinatorial consequence is that if $S$ is a dynamically syndetic subset
of $\Z$, then for each $d\ge 1$, $$\{(n_1,\...,n_d)\in \Z^d: n_1\ep_1+...
+n_d\ep_d\in S, \ep_i\in \{0,1\}, 1\le i\le d\}$$ is syndetic. In some sense
this is the topological correspondence of the result obtained by Host and Kra
for positive upper Banach density subsets using ergodic methods.


Nonparametric Estimation of Multi-View Latent Variable Models

  Spectral methods have greatly advanced the estimation of latent variable
models, generating a sequence of novel and efficient algorithms with strong
theoretical guarantees. However, current spectral algorithms are largely
restricted to mixtures of discrete or Gaussian distributions. In this paper, we
propose a kernel method for learning multi-view latent variable models,
allowing each mixture component to be nonparametric. The key idea of the method
is to embed the joint distribution of a multi-view latent variable into a
reproducing kernel Hilbert space, and then the latent parameters are recovered
using a robust tensor power method. We establish that the sample complexity for
the proposed method is quadratic in the number of latent components and is a
low order polynomial in the other relevant parameters. Thus, our non-parametric
tensor approach to learning latent variable models enjoys good sample and
computational efficiencies. Moreover, the non-parametric tensor power method
compares favorably to EM algorithm and other existing spectral algorithms in
our experiments.


Double-critical graph conjecture for claw-free graphs

  A connected graph $G$ with chromatic number $t$ is double-critical if $G
\backslash \{x, y\}$ is $(t - 2)$-colorable for each edge $xy \in E(G)$. The
complete graphs are the only known examples of double-critical graphs. A
long-standing conjecture of Erd\H os and Lov\'asz from 1966, which is referred
to as the Double-Critical Graph Conjecture, states that there are no other
double-critical graphs. That is, if a graph $G$ with chromatic number $t$ is
double-critical, then $G$ is the complete graph on $t$ vertices. This has been
verified for $t \le 5$, but remains open for $t \ge 6$. In this paper, we first
prove that if $G$ is a non-complete, double-critical graph with chromatic
number $t \ge 6$, then no vertex of degree $t + 1$ is adjacent to a vertex of
degree $t+1$, $t + 2$, or $t + 3$ in $G$. We then use this result to show that
the Double-Critical Graph Conjecture is true for double-critical graphs $G$
with chromatic number $t \le 8$ if $G$ is claw-free.


Planar anti-Ramsey numbers of matchings

  Given a positive integer $n$ and a planar graph $H$, let $\mathcal{T}_n(H)$
be the family of all plane triangulations $T$ on $n$ vertices such that $T$
contains a subgraph isomorphic to $H$. The planar anti-Ramsey number of $H$,
denoted $ar_{_\mathcal{P}}(n, H)$, is the maximum number of colors in an
edge-coloring of a plane triangulation $T\in \mathcal{T}_n(H)$ such that $T$
contains no rainbow copy of $H$. In this paper we study planar anti-Ramsey
numbers of matchings. For all $t\ge1$, let $M_t$ denote a matching of size $t$.
We prove that for all $t\ge6$ and $n\ge 3t-6$, $2n+3t-15\le
ar_{_{\mathcal{P}}}(n, {M}_t)\le 2n+4t-14$, which significantly improves the
existing lower and upper bounds for $ar_{_\mathcal{P}}(n, M_t)$. It seems that
for each $t\ge6$, the lower bound we obtained is the exact value of
$ar_{_{\mathcal{P}}}(n, {M}_t)$ for sufficiently large $n$. This is indeed the
case for $M_6$. We prove that $ar_{_\mathcal{P}}(n, M_6)=2n+3$ for all
$n\ge30$.


Light charged Higgs boson with dominant decay to quarks and its search
  at LHC and future colliders

  The possibility of a light charged Higgs boson $H^\pm$ that decays
predominantly to quarks ($cs$ and/or $cb$) and with a mass in the range 80 GeV
$\le m_{H^\pm} \le 90$ GeV is studied in the context of Three-Higgs-Doublet
Models (3HDMs). At present the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) has little
sensitivity to this scenario, and currently the best constraints are from LEP2
and Tevatron searches. The branching ratio of $H^\pm\to cb$ can be dominant in
two of the five types of 3HDM, and we determine the parameter space where this
occurs. The decay $H^\pm\to cb$ has recently been searched for at the LHC for
the first time, and with increased integrated luminosity one would expect
sensitivity to the region 80 GeV $\le m_{H^\pm} \le 90$ GeV due to the smaller
backgrounds with respect to $H^\pm\to cs$ decays.


Gallai-Ramsey numbers of cycles

  A Gallai coloring of a complete graph is an edge-coloring such that no
triangle has all its edges colored differently. A Gallai $k$-coloring is a
Gallai coloring that uses $k$ colors. Given a graph $H$ and an integer $k\geq
1$, the Gallai-Ramsey number $GR_k(H)$ of $H$ is the least positive integer $N$
such that every Gallai $k$-coloring of the complete graph $K_N$ contains a
monochromatic copy of $H$. Let $C_n$ denote a cycle on $n$ vertices. In this
paper, we first improve the known upper bound on the Gallai-Ramsey numbers of
even cycles by showing that $GR_k( C_{2n})\le (n-1)k+2n+2$ for all $k\geq 1$
and $n\geq 3$. We then use the new upper bound to completely determine the
Gallai-Ramsey numbers of all odd cycles. That is, we prove that
$GR_k(C_{2n+1})=n\cdot 2^k+1$ for all $k\geq 1$ and $n\geq 3$.


Heat kernels of non-symmetric jump processes: beyond the stable case

  Let $J$ be the L\'evy density of a symmetric L\'evy process in $\mathbb{R}^d$
with its L\'evy exponent satisfying a weak lower scaling condition at infinity.
Consider the non-symmetric and non-local operator $$ {\mathcal
L}^{\kappa}f(x):= \lim_{\epsilon \downarrow 0} \int_{\{z \in \mathbb{R}^d:
|z|>\epsilon\}}(f(x+z)-f(x))\kappa(x,z)J(z)\, dz\, , $$ where $\kappa(x,z)$ is
a Borel measurable function on $\mathbb{R}^d\times \mathbb{R}^d$ satisfying
$0<\kappa_0\le \kappa(x,z)\le \kappa_1$, $\kappa(x,z)=\kappa(x,-z)$ and
$|\kappa(x,z)-\kappa(y,z)|\le \kappa_2|x-y|^{\beta}$ for some $\beta\in (0,
1)$. We construct the heat kernel $p^\kappa(t, x, y)$ of ${\mathcal L}^\kappa$,
establish its upper bound as well as its fractional derivative and gradient
estimates. Under an additional weak upper scaling condition at infinity, we
also establish a lower bound for the heat kernel $p^\kappa$.


Supervised Feature Selection via Dependence Estimation

  We introduce a framework for filtering features that employs the
Hilbert-Schmidt Independence Criterion (HSIC) as a measure of dependence
between the features and the labels. The key idea is that good features should
maximise such dependence. Feature selection for various supervised learning
problems (including classification and regression) is unified under this
framework, and the solutions can be approximated using a backward-elimination
algorithm. We demonstrate the usefulness of our method on both artificial and
real world datasets.


Nonparametric Latent Tree Graphical Models: Inference, Estimation, and
  Structure Learning

  Tree structured graphical models are powerful at expressing long range or
hierarchical dependency among many variables, and have been widely applied in
different areas of computer science and statistics. However, existing methods
for parameter estimation, inference, and structure learning mainly rely on the
Gaussian or discrete assumptions, which are restrictive under many
applications. In this paper, we propose new nonparametric methods based on
reproducing kernel Hilbert space embeddings of distributions that can recover
the latent tree structures, estimate the parameters, and perform inference for
high dimensional continuous and non-Gaussian variables. The usefulness of the
proposed methods are illustrated by thorough numerical results.


A la Carte - Learning Fast Kernels

  Kernel methods have great promise for learning rich statistical
representations of large modern datasets. However, compared to neural networks,
kernel methods have been perceived as lacking in scalability and flexibility.
We introduce a family of fast, flexible, lightly parametrized and general
purpose kernel learning methods, derived from Fastfood basis function
expansions. We provide mechanisms to learn the properties of groups of spectral
frequencies in these expansions, which require only O(mlogd) time and O(m)
memory, for m basis functions and d input dimensions. We show that the proposed
methods can learn a wide class of kernels, outperforming the alternatives in
accuracy, speed, and memory consumption.


Uniform Hausdorff dimension result for the inverse images of stable
  Lévy processes

  We establish a uniform Hausdorff dimension result for the inverse image sets
of real-valued strictly $\alpha$-stable L\'evy processes with $1< \alpha\le 2$.
This extends a theorem of Kaufman for Brownian motion. Our method is different
from that of Kaufman and depends on covering principles for Markov processes.


Reinforcement Learning for Uplift Modeling

  Uplift modeling aims to directly model the incremental impact of a treatment
on an individual response. In this work, we address the problem from a new
angle and reformulate it as a Markov Decision Process (MDP). We conducted
extensive experiments on both a synthetic dataset and real-world scenarios, and
showed that our method can achieve significant improvement over previous
methods.


Meta Particle Flow for Sequential Bayesian Inference

  We present a particle flow realization of Bayes' rule, where an ODE-based
neural operator is used to transport particles from a prior to its posterior
after a new observation. We prove that such an ODE operator exists and its
neural parameterization can be trained in a meta-learning framework, allowing
this operator to reason about the effect of an individual observation on the
posterior, and thus generalize across different priors, observations and to
online Bayesian inference. We demonstrated the generalization ability of our
particle flow Bayes operator in several canonical and high dimensional
examples.


General Relation between Entanglement and Fluctuations in One Dimension

  In one dimension very general results from conformal field theory and exact
calculations for certain quantum spin systems have established universal
scaling properties of the entanglement entropy between two parts of a critical
system. Using both analytical and numerical methods, we show that if particle
number or spin is conserved, fluctuations in a subsystem obey identical scaling
as a function of subsystem size, suggesting that fluctuations are a useful
quantity for determining the scaling of entanglement, especially in higher
dimensions. We investigate the effects of boundaries and subleading corrections
for critical spin and bosonic chains.


Entanglement Entropy of the Two-Dimensional Heisenberg Antiferromagnet

  We compute the von Neumann and generalized R\'{e}nyi entanglement entropies
in the ground-state of the spin-1/2 antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model on the
square lattice using the modified spin-wave theory for finite lattices. The
addition of a staggered magnetic field to regularize the Goldstone modes
associated with symmetry-breaking is shown to be essential for obtaining
well-behaved values for the entanglement entropy. The von Neumann and R\'{e}nyi
entropies obey an area law with additive logarithmic corrections, and are in
good quantitative agreement with numerical results from valence bond quantum
Monte Carlo and density matrix renormalization group calculations. We also
compute the spin fluctuations and observe a multiplicative logarithmic
correction to the area law in excellent agreement with quantum Monte Carlo
calculations.


Entanglement from Charge Statistics: Exact Relations for Many-Body
  Systems

  We present exact formulas for the entanglement and R\'{e}nyi entropies
generated at a quantum point contact (QPC) in terms of the statistics of charge
fluctuations, which we illustrate with examples from both equilibrium and
non-equilibrium transport. The formulas are also applicable to groundstate
entanglement in systems described by non-interacting fermions in any dimension,
which in one dimension includes the critical spin-1/2 XX and Ising models where
conformal field theory predictions for the entanglement and R\'{e}nyi entropies
are reproduced from the full counting statistics. These results may play a
crucial role in the experimental detection of many-body entanglement in
mesoscopic structures and cold atoms in optical lattices.


On motivic Joyce-Song formula for the Behrend function identities

  We prove the version of Joyce-Song formula for the Behrend function
identities in the motivic setting. The main method we use is the proof of
Kontsevich-Soibelman conjecture about the motivic Milnor fibers by Q. T. Le,
who uses the method of motivic integration for formal schemes and
Cluckers-Loeser's motivic constructible functions. In the Appendix the motivic
formula can be used to provide a different proof that there is an algebra
homomorphism of Kontsevich-Soibelman from the motivic Hall algebra of the
abelian category of coherent sheaves on a Calabi-Yau threefold $Y$ to the
motivic quantum torus of $Y$.


The number of rational points on a family of varieties over finite
  fields

  Let $\mathbb{F}_q$ stand for the finite field of odd characteristic $p$ with
$q$ elements ($q=p^{n},n\in \mathbb{N} $) and $\mathbb{F}_q^*$ denote the set
of all the nonzero elements of $\mathbb{F}_{q}$. Let $m$ and $t$ be positive
integers. In this paper, by using the Smith normal form of the exponent matrix,
we obtain a formula for the number of rational points on the variety defined by
the following system of equations over $\mathbb{F}_{q}$: $$
\sum\limits_{j=0}^{t-1}\sum\limits_{i=1}^{r_{j+1}-r_j}
a_{k,r_j+i}x_1^{e^{(k)}_{r_j+i,1}}...x_{n_{j+1}}^{e^{(k)}_{r_j+i,n_{j+1}}}=b_k,
\ k=1,...,m. $$ where the integers $t>0$, $r_0=0<r_1<r_2<...<r_t$, $1\le
n_1<n_2<...<n_t$, $0\leq j\leq t-1$, $b_k\in \mathbb{F}_{q}$, $a_{k,i}\in
\mathbb{F}_{q}^{*}$, $(k=1,...,m, i=1,...,r_t)$, and the exponent of each
variable is a positive integer. Furthermore, under some natural conditions, we
arrive at an explicit formula for the number of the above variety. It extends
the results obtained previously by Wolfmann, Sun, Wang, Song, Chen, Hong, Hu
and Zhao et al. Our result also answers completely an open problem raised by
Song and Chen.


Star 5-edge-colorings of subcubic multigraphs

  The star chromatic index of a multigraph $G$, denoted $\chi'_{s}(G)$, is the
minimum number of colors needed to properly color the edges of $G$ such that no
path or cycle of length four is bi-colored. A multigraph $G$ is star
$k$-edge-colorable if $\chi'_{s}(G)\le k$. Dvo\v{r}\'ak, Mohar and \v{S}\'amal
[Star chromatic index, J Graph Theory 72 (2013), 313--326] proved that every
subcubic multigraph is star $7$-edge-colorable, and conjectured that every
subcubic multigraph should be star $6$-edge-colorable. Kerdjoudj, Kostochka and
Raspaud considered the list version of this problem for simple graphs and
proved that every subcubic graph with maximum average degree less than $7/3$ is
star list-$5$-edge-colorable. It is known that a graph with maximum average
degree $14/5$ is not necessarily star $5$-edge-colorable. In this paper, we
prove that every subcubic multigraph with maximum average degree less than
$12/5$ is star $5$-edge-colorable.


Time-Varying Networks: Recovering Temporally Rewiring Genetic Networks
  During the Life Cycle of Drosophila melanogaster

  Due to the dynamic nature of biological systems, biological networks
underlying temporal process such as the development of {\it Drosophila
melanogaster} can exhibit significant topological changes to facilitate dynamic
regulatory functions. Thus it is essential to develop methodologies that
capture the temporal evolution of networks, which make it possible to study the
driving forces underlying dynamic rewiring of gene regulation circuity, and to
predict future network structures. Using a new machine learning method called
Tesla, which builds on a novel temporal logistic regression technique, we
report the first successful genome-wide reverse-engineering of the latent
sequence of temporally rewiring gene networks over more than 4000 genes during
the life cycle of \textit{Drosophila melanogaster}, given longitudinal gene
expression measurements and even when a single snapshot of such measurement
resulted from each (time-specific) network is available. Our methods offer the
first glimpse of time-specific snapshots and temporal evolution patterns of
gene networks in a living organism during its full developmental course. The
recovered networks with this unprecedented resolution chart the onset and
duration of many gene interactions which are missed by typical static network
analysis, and are suggestive of a wide array of other temporal behaviors of the
gene network over time not noticed before.


Star chromatic index of subcubic multigraphs

  The star chromatic index of a multigraph $G$, denoted $\chi'_{s}(G)$, is the
minimum number of colors needed to properly color the edges of $G$ such that no
path or cycle of length four is bi-colored. A multigraph $G$ is star
$k$-edge-colorable if $\chi'_{s}(G)\le k$. Dvo\v{r}\'ak, Mohar and \v{S}\'amal
[Star chromatic index, J. Graph Theory 72 (2013), 313--326] proved that every
subcubic multigraph is star $7$-edge-colorable. They conjectured in the same
paper that every subcubic multigraph should be star $6$-edge-colorable. In this
paper, we first prove that it is NP-complete to determine whether
$\chi'_s(G)\le3$ for an arbitrary graph $G$. This answers a question of Mohar.
We then establish some structure results on subcubic multigraphs $G$ with
$\delta(G)\le2$ such that $\chi'_s(G)>k$ but $\chi'_s(G-v)\le k$ for any $v\in
V(G)$, where $k\in\{5,6\}$. We finally apply the structure results, along with
a simple discharging method, to prove that every subcubic multigraph $G$ is
star $6$-edge-colorable if $mad(G)<5/2$, and star $5$-edge-colorable if
$mad(G)<24/11$, respectively, where $mad(G)$ is the maximum average degree of a
multigraph $G$. This partially confirms the conjecture of Dvo\v{r}\'ak, Mohar
and \v{S}\'amal.


Extremal Theta-free planar graphs

  Given a family $\mathcal{F}$, a graph is $\mathcal{F}$-free if it does not
contain any graph in $\mathcal{F}$ as a subgraph. We study the topic of
"extremal" planar graphs initiated by Dowden [J. Graph Theory 83 (2016)
213--230], that is, how many edges can an $\mathcal{F}$-free planar graph on
$n$ vertices have? We define $ex_{_\mathcal{P}}(n,\mathcal{F})$ to be the
maximum number of edges in an $\mathcal{F}$-free planar graph on $n $ vertices.
Dowden obtained the tight bounds $ex_{_\mathcal{P}}(n,C_4)\leq15(n-2)/7$ for
all $n\geq4$ and $ex_{_\mathcal{P}}(n,C_5)\leq(12n-33)/5$ for all $n\geq11$. In
this paper, we continue to promote the idea of determining
$ex_{_\mathcal{P}}(n,\mathcal{F})$ for certain classes $\mathcal{F}$. Let
$\Theta_k$ denote the family of Theta graphs on $k\ge4$ vertices, that is,
graphs obtained from a cycle $C_k$ by adding an additional edge joining two
non-consecutive vertices. The study of $ex_{_\mathcal{P}}(n,\Theta_4)$ was
suggested by Dowden. We show that $ex_{_\mathcal{P}}(n,\Theta_4)\leq12(n-2)/5$
for all $n\geq 4$, $ex_{_\mathcal{P}}(n,\Theta_5)\leq5(n-2)/2$ for all $n\ge5$,
and then demonstrate that these bounds are tight, in the sense that there are
infinitely many values of $n$ for which they are attained exactly. We also
prove that $ex_{_\mathcal{P}}(n,C_6)\le ex_{_\mathcal{P}}(n,\Theta_6)\le
18(n-2)/7$ for all $n\ge6$.


Decay of Loschmidt Echo Enhanced by Quantum Criticality

  We study the transition of a quantum system $S $ from a pure state to a mixed
one, which is induced by the quantum criticality of the surrounding system $E$
coupled to it. To characterize this transition quantitatively, we carefully
examine the behavior of the Loschmidt echo (LE) of $E$ modelled as an Ising
model in a transverse field, which behaves as a measuring apparatus in quantum
measurement. It is found that the quantum critical behavior of $E$ strongly
affects its capability of enhancing the decay of LE: near the critical value of
the transverse field entailing the happening of quantum phase transition, the
off-diagonal elements of the reduced density matrix describing $S$ vanish
sharply.


Pressure-induced phase transition and superconductivity in YBa2Cu4O8

  We investigate the pressure and temperature dependence of the lattice
dynamics of the underdoped, stoichiometric, high temperature superconductor
YBa2Cu4O8 by means of Raman spectroscopy and ab initio calculations. This
system undergoes a reversible pressure-induced structural phase transition
around 10 GPa to a collapsed orthorhombic structure, that is well reproduced by
the calculation. The coupling of the B1g-like buckling phonon mode to the
electronic continuum is used to probe superconductivity. In the low pressure
phase, self-energy effects through the superconducting transition renormalize
this phonon, and the amplitude of this renormalization strongly increases with
pressure. Whereas our calculation indicates that this mode's coupling to the
electronic system is only marginally affected by the structural phase
transition, the aforementioned renormalization is completely suppressed in the
high pressure phase, demonstrating that under hydrostatic pressures higher than
10 GPa, superconductivity in YBa2Cu4O8 is greatly weakened or obliterated.


Anisotropic hybridization in a new Kondo lattice compound CeCoInGa$_3$

  We report a detailed and comparative study of the single crystal CeCoInGa$_3$
in both experiment and theory. Resistivity measurements reveal the typical
behavior of Kondo lattice with the onset temperature of coherence, $T^*\approx
50\,$K. The magnetic specific heat can be well fitted using a spin-fluctuation
model at low temperatures, yielding a large Sommerfeld coefficient,
$\gamma\approx172\,$mJ/mol K$^2$ at 6 K, suggesting that this is a
heavy-fermion compound with a pronounced coherence effect. The magnetic
susceptibility exhibits a broad field-independent peak at $T_{\chi}$ and shows
an obvious anisotropy within the $bc$ plane, reflecting the anisotropy of the
coherence effect at high temperatures. These are compared with strongly
correlated calculations combining first-principles band structure calculations
and dynamical mean-field theory. Our results confirm the onset of coherence at
about 50 K and reveal a similar anisotropy in the hybridization gap, pointing
to a close connection between the hybridization strength of the low-temperature
Fermi-liquid state and the high-temperature coherence effect.


Sharp Space-Time Regularity of the Solution to Stochastic Heat Equation
  Driven by Fractional-Colored Noise

  In this paper, we study the following stochastic heat equation \[
  \partial_tu=\mathcal{L} u(t,x)+\dot{B},\quad
  u(0,x)=0,\quad 0\le t\le T,\quad x\in\mathbb{R}d, \] where $\mathcal{L}$ is
the generator of a L\'evy process $X$ taking value in $\mathbb{R}^d$, $B$ is a
fractional-colored Gaussian noise with Hurst index
$H\in\left(\frac12,\,1\right)$ for the time variable and spatial covariance
function $f$ which is the Fourier transform of a tempered measure $\mu.$
  After establishing the existence of solution for the stochastic heat
equation, we study the regularity of the solution $\{u(t,x),\, t\ge 0,\,
x\in\mathbb{R}^d\}$ in both time and space variables. Under mild conditions, we
give the exact uniform modulus of continuity and a Chung-type law of iterated
logarithm for the sample function $(t,x)\mapsto u(t,x)$. Our results generalize
and strengthen the corresponding results of Balan and Tudor (2008) and Tudor
and Xiao (2017).


Exact rainbow numbers for matchings in plane triangulations

  Given two graphs $G$ and $H$, the {\it rainbow number} $rb(G,H)$ for $H$ with
respect to $G$ is defined as the minimum number $k$ such that any
$k$-edge-coloring of $G$ contains a rainbow $H$, i.e., a copy of $H$, all of
its edges have different colors. Denote by $M_t$ a matching of size $t$ and
$\mathcal {T}_n$ the class of all plane triangulations of order $n$,
respectively. Jendrol', Schiermeyer and Tu initiated to investigate the rainbow
numbers for matchings in plane triangulations, and proved some bounds for the
value of $rb({\mathcal {T}_n},M_t)$. Chen, Lan and Song proved that $2n+3t-14
\le rb(\mathcal {T}_n, M_t)\le 2n+4t-13$ for all $n\ge 3t-6$ and $t \ge 6$. In
this paper, we determine the exact values of $rb({\mathcal {T}_n},M_t)$ for
large $n$, namely, $rb({\mathcal {T}_n},M_t)=2n+3t-14$ for all $n \ge 9t+3$ and
$t\ge 7$.


Bipartite Fluctuations as a Probe of Many-Body Entanglement

  We investigate in detail the behavior of the bipartite fluctuations of
particle number $\hat{N}$ and spin $\hat{S}^z$ in many-body quantum systems,
focusing on systems where such U(1) charges are both conserved and fluctuate
within subsystems due to exchange of charges between subsystems. We propose
that the bipartite fluctuations are an effective tool for studying many-body
physics, particularly its entanglement properties, in the same way that noise
and Full Counting Statistics have been used in mesoscopic transport and cold
atomic gases. For systems that can be mapped to a problem of non-interacting
fermions we show that the fluctuations and higher-order cumulants fully encode
the information needed to determine the entanglement entropy as well as the
full entanglement spectrum through the R\'{e}nyi entropies. In this connection
we derive a simple formula that explicitly relates the eigenvalues of the
reduced density matrix to the R\'{e}nyi entropies of integer order for any
finite density matrix. In other systems, particularly in one dimension, the
fluctuations are in many ways similar but not equivalent to the entanglement
entropy. Fluctuations are tractable analytically, computable numerically in
both density matrix renormalization group and quantum Monte Carlo calculations,
and in principle accessible in condensed matter and cold atom experiments. In
the context of quantum point contacts, measurement of the second charge
cumulant showing a logarithmic dependence on time would constitute a strong
indication of many-body entanglement.


Online Supervised Subspace Tracking

  We present a framework for supervised subspace tracking, when there are two
time series $x_t$ and $y_t$, one being the high-dimensional predictors and the
other being the response variables and the subspace tracking needs to take into
consideration of both sequences. It extends the classic online subspace
tracking work which can be viewed as tracking of $x_t$ only. Our online
sufficient dimensionality reduction (OSDR) is a meta-algorithm that can be
applied to various cases including linear regression, logistic regression,
multiple linear regression, multinomial logistic regression, support vector
machine, the random dot product model and the multi-scale union-of-subspace
model. OSDR reduces data-dimensionality on-the-fly with low-computational
complexity and it can also handle missing data and dynamic data. OSDR uses an
alternating minimization scheme and updates the subspace via gradient descent
on the Grassmannian manifold. The subspace update can be performed efficiently
utilizing the fact that the Grassmannian gradient with respect to the subspace
in many settings is rank-one (or low-rank in certain cases). The optimization
problem for OSDR is non-convex and hard to analyze in general; we provide
convergence analysis of OSDR in a simple linear regression setting. The good
performance of OSDR compared with the conventional unsupervised subspace
tracking are demonstrated via numerical examples on simulated and real data.


Neural Network-based Graph Embedding for Cross-Platform Binary Code
  Similarity Detection

  The problem of cross-platform binary code similarity detection aims at
detecting whether two binary functions coming from different platforms are
similar or not. It has many security applications, including plagiarism
detection, malware detection, vulnerability search, etc. Existing approaches
rely on approximate graph matching algorithms, which are inevitably slow and
sometimes inaccurate, and hard to adapt to a new task. To address these issues,
in this work, we propose a novel neural network-based approach to compute the
embedding, i.e., a numeric vector, based on the control flow graph of each
binary function, then the similarity detection can be done efficiently by
measuring the distance between the embeddings for two functions. We implement a
prototype called Gemini. Our extensive evaluation shows that Gemini outperforms
the state-of-the-art approaches by large margins with respect to similarity
detection accuracy. Further, Gemini can speed up prior art's embedding
generation time by 3 to 4 orders of magnitude and reduce the required training
time from more than 1 week down to 30 minutes to 10 hours. Our real world case
studies demonstrate that Gemini can identify significantly more vulnerable
firmware images than the state-of-the-art, i.e., Genius. Our research showcases
a successful application of deep learning on computer security problems.


Improved Upper Bounds for Gallai-Ramsey Numbers of Odd Cycles

  A Gallai coloring of a complete graph is an edge-coloring such that no
triangle has all its edges colored differently. A Gallai $k$-coloring is a
Gallai coloring that uses $k$ colors. Given an integer $k\ge1$ and a graph $H$,
the Gallai-Ramsey number $GR_k(H)$ is the least positive integer $n$ such that
every Gallai $k$-coloring of the complete graph $K_n$ contains a monochromatic
copy of $H$. Gy\'{a}rf\'{a}s, S\'{a}rk\"{o}zy, Seb\H{o} and Selkow proved in
2010 that $GR_k (H) $ is exponential in $k$ if $H$ is not bipartite, linear in
$k$ if $H$ is bipartite but not a star, and constant (does not depend on $k$)
when $H$ is a star. Hence, $GR_k(H)$ is more well-behaved than the classical
Ramsey number $R_k(H)$. However, finding exact values of $GR_k (H)$ is far from
trivial, even when $|V(H)|$ is small. In this paper, we first improve the
existing upper bounds for Gallai-Ramsey numbers of odd cycles by showing that
$GR_k(C_{2n+1}) \le (n\ln n) \cdot 2^k -(k+1)n+1$ for all $k \ge 3$ and $n \ge
8$. We then prove that $GR_k( C_{13})= 6\cdot 2^k+1$ and $GR_k( C_{15})= 7\cdot
2^k+1$ for all $k\ge1$.


Gallai-Ramsey numbers of $C_{10}$ and $C_{12}$

  A Gallai coloring is a coloring of the edges of a complete graph without
rainbow triangles, and a Gallai $k$-coloring is a Gallai coloring that uses $k$
colors. Given an integer $k\ge1$ and graphs $H_1, \ldots, H_k$, the
Gallai-Ramsey number $GR(H_1, \ldots, H_k)$ is the least integer $n$ such that
every Gallai $k$-coloring of the complete graph $K_n$ contains a monochromatic
copy of $H_i$ in color $i$ for some $i \in \{1, \ldots, k\}$. When $H = H_1 =
\cdots = H_k$, we simply write $GR_k(H)$. We continue to study Gallai-Ramsey
numbers of even cycles and paths. For all $n\ge3$ and $k\ge1$, let
$G_i=P_{2i+3}$ be a path on $2i+3$ vertices for all $i\in\{0,1, \ldots, n-2\}$
and $G_{n-1}\in\{C_{2n}, P_{2n+1}\}$. Let $ i_j\in\{0,1,\ldots, n-1\}$ for all
$j\in\{1, \ldots, k\}$ with $ i_1\ge i_2\ge\cdots\ge i_k $. Song recently
conjectured that $GR(G_{i_1}, \ldots, G_{i_k}) = 3+\min\{i_1,
n^*-2\}+\sum_{j=1}^k i_j$, where $n^* =n$ when $G_{i_1}\ne P_{2n+1}$ and $n^*
=n+1$ when $G_{i_1}= P_{2n+1}$. This conjecture has been verified to be true
for $n\in\{3,4\}$ and all $k\ge1$. In this paper, we prove that the
aforementioned conjecture holds for $n \in\{5, 6\}$ and all $k \ge1$. Our
result implies that for all $k \ge 1$, $GR_k(C_{2n}) = GR_k(P_{2n}) =
(n-1)k+n+1$ for $n\in\{5,6\}$ and $GR_k(P_{2n+1})= (n-1)k+n+2$ for $1\le n \le6
$.


Budgeted Influence Maximization for Multiple Products

  The typical algorithmic problem in viral marketing aims to identify a set of
influential users in a social network, who, when convinced to adopt a product,
shall influence other users in the network and trigger a large cascade of
adoptions. However, the host (the owner of an online social platform) often
faces more constraints than a single product, endless user attentions,
unlimited budget and unbounded time; in reality, multiple products need to be
advertised, each user can tolerate only a small number of recommendations,
influencing user has a cost and advertisers have only limited budgets, and the
adoptions need to be maximized within a short time window.
  Given theses myriads of user, monetary, and timing constraints, it is
extremely challenging for the host to design principled and efficient viral
market algorithms with provable guarantees. In this paper, we provide a novel
solution by formulating the problem as a submodular maximization in a
continuous-time diffusion model under an intersection of a matroid and multiple
knapsack constraints. We also propose an adaptive threshold greedy algorithm
which can be faster than the traditional greedy algorithm with lazy evaluation,
and scalable to networks with million of nodes. Furthermore, our mathematical
formulation allows us to prove that the algorithm can achieve an approximation
factor of $k_a/(2+2 k)$ when $k_a$ out of the $k$ knapsack constraints are
active, which also improves over previous guarantees from combinatorial
optimization literature. In the case when influencing each user has uniform
cost, the approximation becomes even better to a factor of $1/3$. Extensive
synthetic and real world experiments demonstrate that our budgeted influence
maximization algorithm achieves the-state-of-the-art in terms of both
effectiveness and scalability, often beating the next best by significant
margins.


Fluctuations and Entanglement spectrum in quantum Hall states

  The measurement of quantum entanglement in many-body systems remains
challenging. One experimentally relevant fact about quantum entanglement is
that in systems whose degrees of freedom map to free fermions with conserved
total particle number, exact relations hold relating the Full Counting
Statistics associated with the bipartite charge fluctuations and the sequence
of R\' enyi entropies. We draw a correspondence between the bipartite charge
fluctuations and the entanglement spectrum, mediated by the R\' enyi entropies.
In the case of the integer quantum Hall effect, we show that it is possible to
reproduce the generic features of the entanglement spectrum from a measurement
of the second charge cumulant only. Additionally, asking whether it is possible
to extend the free fermion result to the $\nu=1/3$ fractional quantum Hall
case, we provide numerical evidence that the answer is negative in general. We
further address the problem of quantum Hall edge states described by a
Luttinger liquid, and derive expressions for the spectral functions of the real
space entanglement spectrum at a quantum point contact realized in a quantum
Hall sample.


A comment on Ryser's conjecture for intersecting hypergraphs

  Let $\tau(\mathcal{H})$ be the cover number and $\nu(\mathcal{H})$ be the
matching number of a hypergraph $\mathcal{H}$. Ryser conjectured that every
$r$-partite hypergraph $\mathcal{H}$ satisfies the inequality
$\tau(\mathcal{H}) \leq (r-1) \nu (\mathcal{H})$. This conjecture is open for
all $r \ge 4$. For intersecting hypergraphs, namely those with
$\nu(\mathcal{H})=1$, Ryser's conjecture reduces to $\tau(\mathcal{H}) \leq
r-1$. Even this conjecture is extremely difficult and is open for all $ r \ge
6$. For infinitely many $r$ there are examples of intersecting $r$-partite
hypergraphs with $\tau(\mathcal{H})=r-1$, demonstrating the tightness of the
conjecture for such $r$. However, all previously known constructions are not
optimal as they use far too many edges. How sparse can an intersecting
$r$-partite hypergraph be, given that its cover number is as large as possible,
namely $\tau(\mathcal{H}) \ge r-1$? In this paper we solve this question for $r
\le 5$, give an almost optimal construction for $r=6$, prove that any
$r$-partite intersecting hypergraph with $\tau(H) \ge r-1$ must have at least
$(3-\frac{1}{\sqrt{18}})r(1-o(1)) \approx 2.764r(1-o(1))$ edges, and conjecture
that there exist constructions with $\Theta(r)$ edges.


Estimating time-varying networks

  Stochastic networks are a plausible representation of the relational
information among entities in dynamic systems such as living cells or social
communities. While there is a rich literature in estimating a static or
temporally invariant network from observation data, little has been done toward
estimating time-varying networks from time series of entity attributes. In this
paper we present two new machine learning methods for estimating time-varying
networks, which both build on a temporally smoothed $l_1$-regularized logistic
regression formalism that can be cast as a standard convex-optimization problem
and solved efficiently using generic solvers scalable to large networks. We
report promising results on recovering simulated time-varying networks. For
real data sets, we reverse engineer the latent sequence of temporally rewiring
political networks between Senators from the US Senate voting records and the
latent evolving regulatory networks underlying 588 genes across the life cycle
of Drosophila melanogaster from the microarray time course.


Kernel Bayes' rule

  A nonparametric kernel-based method for realizing Bayes' rule is proposed,
based on representations of probabilities in reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces.
Probabilities are uniquely characterized by the mean of the canonical map to
the RKHS. The prior and conditional probabilities are expressed in terms of
RKHS functions of an empirical sample: no explicit parametric model is needed
for these quantities. The posterior is likewise an RKHS mean of a weighted
sample. The estimator for the expectation of a function of the posterior is
derived, and rates of consistency are shown. Some representative applications
of the kernel Bayes' rule are presented, including Baysian computation without
likelihood and filtering with a nonparametric state-space model.


Infinite Hierarchical MMSB Model for Nested Communities/Groups in Social
  Networks

  Actors in realistic social networks play not one but a number of diverse
roles depending on whom they interact with, and a large number of such
role-specific interactions collectively determine social communities and their
organizations. Methods for analyzing social networks should capture these
multi-faceted role-specific interactions, and, more interestingly, discover the
latent organization or hierarchy of social communities. We propose a
hierarchical Mixed Membership Stochastic Blockmodel to model the generation of
hierarchies in social communities, selective membership of actors to subsets of
these communities, and the resultant networks due to within- and
cross-community interactions. Furthermore, to automatically discover these
latent structures from social networks, we develop a Gibbs sampling algorithm
for our model. We conduct extensive validation of our model using synthetic
networks, and demonstrate the utility of our model in real-world datasets such
as predator-prey networks and citation networks.


Unfolding Latent Tree Structures using 4th Order Tensors

  Discovering the latent structure from many observed variables is an important
yet challenging learning task. Existing approaches for discovering latent
structures often require the unknown number of hidden states as an input. In
this paper, we propose a quartet based approach which is \emph{agnostic} to
this number. The key contribution is a novel rank characterization of the
tensor associated with the marginal distribution of a quartet. This
characterization allows us to design a \emph{nuclear norm} based test for
resolving quartet relations. We then use the quartet test as a subroutine in a
divide-and-conquer algorithm for recovering the latent tree structure. Under
mild conditions, the algorithm is consistent and its error probability decays
exponentially with increasing sample size. We demonstrate that the proposed
approach compares favorably to alternatives. In a real world stock dataset, it
also discovers meaningful groupings of variables, and produces a model that
fits the data better.


A Spectral Algorithm for Latent Junction Trees

  Latent variable models are an elegant framework for capturing rich
probabilistic dependencies in many applications. However, current approaches
typically parametrize these models using conditional probability tables, and
learning relies predominantly on local search heuristics such as Expectation
Maximization. Using tensor algebra, we propose an alternative parameterization
of latent variable models (where the model structures are junction trees) that
still allows for computation of marginals among observed variables. While this
novel representation leads to a moderate increase in the number of parameters
for junction trees of low treewidth, it lets us design a local-minimum-free
algorithm for learning this parameterization. The main computation of the
algorithm involves only tensor operations and SVDs which can be orders of
magnitude faster than EM algorithms for large datasets. To our knowledge, this
is the first provably consistent parameter learning technique for a large class
of low-treewidth latent graphical models beyond trees. We demonstrate the
advantages of our method on synthetic and real datasets.


Scaling of entanglement entropy across Lifshitz transitions

  We investigate the scaling of the bipartite entanglement entropy across
Lifshitz quantum phase transitions, where the topology of the Fermi surface
changes without any changes in symmetry. We present both numerical and
analytical results which show that Lifshitz transitions are characterized by a
well-defined set of critical exponents for the entanglement entropy near the
phase transition. In one dimension, we show that the entanglement entropy
exhibits a length scale that diverges as the system approaches a Lifshitz
critical point. In two dimensions, the leading and sub-leading coefficients of
the scaling of entanglement entropy show distinct power-law singularities at
critical points. The effect of weak interactions is investigated using the
density matrix renormalization group algorithm.


Global uniform boundary Harnack principle with explicit decay rate and
  its application

  In this paper, we consider a large class of subordinate Brownian motions $X$
via subordinators with Laplace exponents which are complete Bernstein functions
satisfying some mild scaling conditions at zero and at infinity. We first
discuss how such conditions govern the behavior of the subordinator and the
corresponding subordinate Brownian motion for both large and small time and
space. Then we establish a global uniform boundary Harnack principle in
(unbounded) open sets for the subordinate Brownian motion. When the open set
satisfies the interior and exterior ball conditions with radius $R >0$, we get
a global uniform boundary Harnack principle with explicit decay rate. Our
boundary Harnack principle is global in the sense that it holds for all $R>0$
and the comparison constants do not depend on $R$, and it is uniform in the
sense that it holds for all balls with radii $r \le R$ and the comparison
constants depend neither on $D$ nor on $r$. As an application, we give sharp
two-sided estimates for the transition density and the Green function of such
subordinate Brownian motions in the half-space.


Least Squares Revisited: Scalable Approaches for Multi-class Prediction

  This work provides simple algorithms for multi-class (and multi-label)
prediction in settings where both the number of examples n and the data
dimension d are relatively large. These robust and parameter free algorithms
are essentially iterative least-squares updates and very versatile both in
theory and in practice. On the theoretical front, we present several variants
with convergence guarantees. Owing to their effective use of second-order
structure, these algorithms are substantially better than first-order methods
in many practical scenarios. On the empirical side, we present a scalable
stagewise variant of our approach, which achieves dramatic computational
speedups over popular optimization packages such as Liblinear and Vowpal Wabbit
on standard datasets (MNIST and CIFAR-10), while attaining state-of-the-art
accuracies.


Shaping Social Activity by Incentivizing Users

  Events in an online social network can be categorized roughly into endogenous
events, where users just respond to the actions of their neighbors within the
network, or exogenous events, where users take actions due to drives external
to the network. How much external drive should be provided to each user, such
that the network activity can be steered towards a target state? In this paper,
we model social events using multivariate Hawkes processes, which can capture
both endogenous and exogenous event intensities, and derive a time dependent
linear relation between the intensity of exogenous events and the overall
network activity. Exploiting this connection, we develop a convex optimization
framework for determining the required level of external drive in order for the
network to reach a desired activity level. We experimented with event data
gathered from Twitter, and show that our method can steer the activity of the
network more accurately than alternatives.


