Uniqueness of asymptotic cones of complete noncompact shrinking gradient
  Ricci solitons with Ricci curvature decay

  We discuss an elementary consequence of the works of (1) Brett Kotschwar and
Lu Wang and (2) Ovidiu Munteanu and Jiaping Wang.


Quantum Capacitance Spectroscopy of Single Nanotube Molecules

  some errors in equations


Hausdorff Stability of the Round Two-Sphere Under Small Perturbations of
  the Entropy

  We show that if a closed surface in $\mathbb{R}^3$ has entropy near to that
of the unit two-sphere, then the surface is close to a round two-sphere in the
Hausdorff distance.


Asymptotic structure of self-shrinkers

  We show that each end of a noncompact self-shrinker in $\mathbb{R}^3$ of
finite topology is smoothly asymptotic to either a regular cone or a
self-shrinking round cylinder.


Topological Uniqueness for Self-expanders of Small Entropy

  For a fixed regular cone in Euclidean space with small entropy we show that
all smooth self-expanding solutions of the mean curvature flow that are
asymptotic to the cone are in the same isotopy class.


Classifying the bicrossed products of $H_4$ and $H_8$

  We classify all Hopf algebras which factor through $H_8$ and $H_4$. The set
of all matched pair $(H_8,H_4,\triangleright,\triangleleft)$ is explicitly
described, and then the associated bicrossed products is given by generators
and relations.


Prime Factorization in the Duality Computer

  We give algorithms to factorize large integers in the duality computer. We
provide three duality algorithms for factorization based on a naive
factorization method, the Shor algorithm in quantum computing, and the Fermat's
method in classical computing. All these algorithms are polynomial in the input
size.


Existence of Good Sweepouts on Closed Manifolds

  In this note we establish estimates for the harmonic map heat flow from $S^1$
into a closed manifold, and use it to construct sweepouts with the following
good property: each curve in the tightened sweepout, whose energy is close to
the maximal energy of curves in the sweepout, is itself close to a closed
geodesic.


A Bernstein Type Theorem For Self-similar Shrinkers

  In this note, we prove that smooth self-shrinkers in $\Real^{n+1}$, that are
entire graphs, are hyperplanes. Previously Ecker and Huisken showed that smooth
self-shrinkers, that are entire graphs and have at most polynomial growth, are
hyperplanes. The point of this note is that no growth assumption at infinity is
needed.


Uniqueness of Self-similar Shrinkers with Asymptotically Conical Ends

  Let $C\subset\mathbb{R}^{n+1}$ be a regular cone with vertex at the origin.
In this paper, we show the uniqueness for smooth properly embedded
self-shrinking ends in $\mathbb{R}^{n+1}$ that are asymptotic to $C$. As an
application, we prove that not every regular cone with vertex at the origin has
a smooth complete properly embedded self-shrinker asymptotic to it.


Geometry of Two-dimensional Self-shrinkers

  We prove a local graphical theorem for two-dimensional self-shrinkers away
from the origin. As applications, we study the asymptotic behavior of
noncompact self-shrinkers with finite genus. Also, we show uniform boundedness
on the second fundamental form of two-dimensional noncompact self-shrinkers
with bounded mean curvature and uniform locally finite genus.


Nanotwin-Dominant Superstructures Selectively Grown on Anatase {001}
  Facets

  homo/heterojunction renders fascinating electronic, optical, mechanical,
chemical properties, yet a facile synthesis of this structure remains a
challenge.


Projection onto the capped simplex

  We provide a simple and efficient algorithm for computing the Euclidean
projection of a point onto the capped simplex---a simplex with an additional
uniform bound on each coordinate---together with an elementary proof. Both the
MATLAB and C++ implementations of the proposed algorithm can be downloaded at
https://eng.ucmerced.edu/people/wwang5.


Challenge of Multi-Camera Tracking

  Multi-camera tracking is quite different from single camera tracking, and it
faces new technology and system architecture challenges. By analyzing the
corresponding characteristics and disadvantages of the existing algorithms,
problems in multi-camera tracking are summarized and some new directions for
future work are also generalized.


Signless Laplacian spectral conditions for Hamilton-connected graphs
  with large minimum degree

  In this paper, we present a spectral sufficient condition for a graph to be
Hamilton-connected in terms of signless Laplacian spectral radius with large
minimum degree.


Neural Network-Based Abstract Generation for Opinions and Arguments

  We study the problem of generating abstractive summaries for opinionated
text. We propose an attention-based neural network model that is able to absorb
information from multiple text units to construct informative, concise, and
fluent summaries. An importance-based sampling method is designed to allow the
encoder to integrate information from an important subset of input. Automatic
evaluation indicates that our system outperforms state-of-the-art abstractive
and extractive summarization systems on two newly collected datasets of movie
reviews and arguments. Our system summaries are also rated as more informative
and grammatical in human evaluation.


Nonlocal Double-Slit Interference with Pseudothermal Light

  We perform a nonlocal double-slit interference experiment with pseudothermal
light. The experimental result exhibits a typical double-slit interference
fringe in the intensity correlation measurement, in agreement with the
theoretical analysis by means of the property of the second-order spatial
correlation of field.


Linearized Wenger graphs

  Motivated by recent extensive studies on Wenger graphs, we introduce a new
infinite class of bipartite graphs of the similar type, called linearized
Wenger graphs. The spectrum, diameter and girth of these linearized Wenger
graphs are determined.


The symplectic geometry of a new kind of Siegel upper half space of
  order 2 (I)

  In this paper, we introduce a new kind of Siegel upper half space and
consider the symplectic geometry on it explicitly under the action of the group
of all holomorphic transformations of it. The results and methods will form a
basis for our number theoretic applications later.


Spin dependent transport in ferromagnetic/superconductor/ferromagnetic
  single electron transistor

  Ferromagnetic single electron transistors with Al islands and orthogonal
ferromagnetic leads (Co) are fabricated using ebeam lithography followed by
shadow evaporation techniques. I-V characteristics exhibit typical single
electron tunneling effects. Transport measurements performed in external
magnetic field show that, when the two ferromagnetic leads are in antiparallel
configuration, spin imbalance leads to a suppression of superconductivity.


Perfect Secure High-Dimensional Quantum Bit Commitment Protocol

  This paper has been withdrawn due to security loophole. We thank Dr G. P. he
for pointing this to us.


Vertex-deleted subgraphs and regular factors from regular graph

  Let $k$, $m$ and $r$ be three integers such that $2\leq k\leq m\leq r$.
  Let $G$ be a $2r$-regular, $2m$-edge-connected graph of odd order.
  We obtain some sufficient conditions, which guarantee $G-v$ contains a
$k$-factor for all $v\in V(G)$.


Yetter-Drinfeld category for dual quasi-Hopf algebras

  Let $H$ be a dual quasi-Hopf algebra. In this paper we define all possible
categories of Yetter-Drinfeld modules over $H$, and show that they are
isomorphic. We prove also that the category $^H_H\mathcal{YD}^{fd}$ of
finite-dimensional left-left Yetter-Drinfeld modules is rigid.


Yetter-Drinfeld-Long bimodules are modules

  Let $H$ be a finite dimensional bialgebra. In this paper, we prove that the
category of Yetter-Drinfeld-Long bimodules is isomorphic to the Yetter-Drinfeld
category over the tensor product bialgebra $H\o H^*$ as monoidal category.
Moreover if $H$ is a Hopf algebra with bijective antipode, the isomorphism is
braided.


(p,q)-deformed Virasoro-Witt n-algebra

  n-ary algebras have played important roles in mathematics and mathematical
physics. The purpose of this paper is to construct a deformation of
Virasoro-Witt n-algebra based on an oscillator realization with two independent
parameters (p, q) and investigate its n-Lie subalgebra.


The structures on the universal enveloping algebras of differential
  graded Poisson Hopf algebras

  In this paper, the so-called differential graded (DG for short) Poisson Hopf
algebra is introduced, which can be considered as a natural extension of
Poisson Hopf algebras in the differential graded setting. The structures on the
universal enveloping algebras of differential graded Poisson Hopf algebras are
discussed.


A Note on $\{k,n-k\}$-Factors of Regular Graphs

  Let $r$ be an odd integer, and $k$ an even integer. In this note, we present
$r$-regular graphs which have no $\{k,r-k\}$-factors for all $1\le k\le
{r\over2}-1$. This gives a negative answer to a problem posed by Akbari and
Kano recently.


Yetter-Drinfeld category for the quasi-Turaev group coalgebra

  Let $\pi$ be a group. The aim of this paper is to construct the category of
Yetter-Drinfeld modules over the quasi-Turaev group coalgebra
$H=(\{H_\a\}_{\a\in\pi},\Delta,\varepsilon,S,\Phi)$, and prove that this
category is isomorphic to the center of the representation category of $H$.
Therefore a new Turaev braided group category is constructed.


Krichever-Novikov Vertex Algebras on Compact Riemann Surfaces

  We give a notation of Krichever-Novikov vertex algebras on compact Riemann
surfaces which is a bit weaker, but quite similar to vertex algebras. As
example, we construct Krichever-Novikov vertex algebras of generalized
Heisenberg algebras on arbitrary compact Riemann surfaces, which are reduced to
be Heisenberg vertex algebra when restricted on Riemann spheres.


Ancient Solutions on Bundles with Non-abelian Structural Group

  We generalize the ancient solutions of the Ricci flow on certain principal
${\rm SO}(3)$ bundles over compact quaternionic K\"ahler manifolds constructed
by Bakas, Kong, and Ni to certain $RP^3$ fibre bundles over a product of two
compact quaternionic K\"ahler manifolds. The ancient solutions are of Type I,
$\kappa$-noncollapsed, and have positive Ricci curvature. Analogous solutions
on even-dimensional non-K\"ahlerian bundle spaces are also constructed.


Global attractor for a nonlinear one-dimensional compressible viscous
  micropolar fluid

  This paper considers the dynamical behavior of solutions of constitutive
systems for 1D compressible viscous and heat-conducting micropolar fluids. With
proper constraints on initial data, we prove the existence of global attractors
in generalized Sobolev spaces $H^{(1)}_{\delta}$ and $H^{(2)}_{\delta}$.


Observation of eight-photon entanglement

  Using ultra-bright sources of pure-state entangled photons from parametric
down conversion, an eight-photon interferometer and post-selection detection,
we demonstrate the ability to experimentally manipulate eight individual
photons and report the creation of an eight-photon Schr\"odinger cat state with
an observed fidelity of $0.708 \pm 0.016$.


Scaling limit of the Stein variational gradient descent: the mean field
  regime

  We study an interacting particle system in $\mathbf{R}^d$ motivated by Stein
variational gradient descent [Q. Liu and D. Wang, NIPS 2016], a deterministic
algorithm for sampling from a given probability density with unknown
normalization. We prove that in the large particle limit the empirical measure
of the particle system converges to a solution of a non-local and nonlinear
PDE. We also prove global existence, uniqueness and regularity of the solution
to the limiting PDE. Finally, we prove that the solution to the PDE converges
to the unique invariant solution in long time limit.


Multiple Antennas Secure Transmission under Pilot Spoofing and Jamming
  Attack

  Transmitter-side channel state information (CSI) of the legitimate
destination plays a critical role in physical layer secure transmissions.
However, channel training procedure is vulnerable to the pilot spoofing attack
(PSA) or pilot jamming attack (PJA) by an active eavesdropper (Eve), which
inevitably results in severe private information leakage. In this paper, we
propose a random channel training (RCT) based secure downlink transmission
framework for a time division duplex (TDD) multiple antennas base station (BS).
In the proposed RCT scheme, multiple orthogonal pilot sequences (PSs) are
simultaneously allocated to the legitimate user (LU), and the LU randomly
selects one PS from the assigned PS set to transmit. Under either the PSA or
PJA, we provide the detailed steps for the BS to identify the PS transmitted by
the LU, and to simultaneously estimate channels of the LU and Eve. The
probability that the BS makes an incorrect decision on the PS of the LU is
analytically investigated. Finally, closed-form secure beamforming (SB) vectors
are designed and optimized to enhance the secrecy rates during the downlink
transmissions. Numerical results show that the secrecy performance is greatly
improved compared to the conventional channel training scheme wherein only one
PS is assigned to the LU.


Quantum fluctuations of $D_{5d}$ polarons on $C_{60}$ molecules

  The dynamic Jahn-Teller splitting of the six equivalent $D_{5d}$ polarons due
to quantum fluctuations is studied in the framework of the Bogoliubov-de Gennes
formalism. The tunneling induced level splittings are determined to be $^2
T_{1u} \bigoplus ^2 T_{2u}$ and $^1 A_g \bigoplus ^1 H_g$ for $C_{60}^{1-}$ and
$C_{60}^{2-}$, respectively, which should give rise to observable effects in
experiments.


Limitations of Nanotechnology for Atom Interferometry

  Do van der Waals interactions determine the smallest nanostructures that can
be used for atom optics? This question is studied with regard to the problem of
designing an atom interferometer with optimum sensitivity to de Broglie wave
phase shifts. The optimum sensitivity to acceleration and rotation rates is
also considered. For these applications we predict that nanostructures with a
period smaller than 40 nm will cause atom interferometers to perform poorly
because van der Waals interactions adversely affect how nanostructure gratings
work as beam-splitters.


Two-step Quantum Key Distribution Schemes Using Polarization and
  Frequency Doubly Entangled Photons

  A two-step quantum key distribution protocol using frequency and polarization
doubly entangled photons is proposed. In this protocol, information is encoded
by a unitary operation on each of the two doubly entangled photons and sent
from Alice to Bob in two steps. State measurement device is designed. The
security of the communication is analyzed.


Ancient Ricci Flow Solutions on Bundles

  We generalize the circle bundle examples of ancient solutions of the Ricci
flow discovered by Bakas, Kong, and Ni to a class of principal torus bundles
over an arbitrary finite product of Fano K\"ahler-Einstein manifolds studied by
Wang and Ziller in the context of Einstein geometry. As a result, continuous
families of $\kappa$-collapsed and $\kappa$-noncollapsed ancient solutions of
type I are obtained on circle bundles for all odd dimensions $\geq 7$. In
dimension $7$ such examples moreover exist on pairs of homeomorphic but not
diffeomorphic manifolds. Continuous families of $\kappa$-collapsed ancient
solutions of type I are also obtained on torus bundles for all dimensions $\geq
8$.


Socially-Informed Timeline Generation for Complex Events

  Existing timeline generation systems for complex events consider only
information from traditional media, ignoring the rich social context provided
by user-generated content that reveals representative public interests or
insightful opinions. We instead aim to generate socially-informed timelines
that contain both news article summaries and selected user comments. We present
an optimization framework designed to balance topical cohesion between the
article and comment summaries along with their informativeness and coverage of
the event. Automatic evaluations on real-world datasets that cover four complex
events show that our system produces more informative timelines than
state-of-the-art systems. In human evaluation, the associated comment summaries
are furthermore rated more insightful than editor's picks and comments ranked
highly by users.


A Piece of My Mind: A Sentiment Analysis Approach for Online Dispute
  Detection

  We investigate the novel task of online dispute detection and propose a
sentiment analysis solution to the problem: we aim to identify the sequence of
sentence-level sentiments expressed during a discussion and to use them as
features in a classifier that predicts the DISPUTE/NON-DISPUTE label for the
discussion as a whole. We evaluate dispute detection approaches on a newly
created corpus of Wikipedia Talk page disputes and find that classifiers that
rely on our sentiment tagging features outperform those that do not. The best
model achieves a very promising F1 score of 0.78 and an accuracy of 0.80.


Unsupervised Topic Modeling Approaches to Decision Summarization in
  Spoken Meetings

  We present a token-level decision summarization framework that utilizes the
latent topic structures of utterances to identify "summary-worthy" words.
Concretely, a series of unsupervised topic models is explored and experimental
results show that fine-grained topic models, which discover topics at the
utterance-level rather than the document-level, can better identify the gist of
the decision-making process. Moreover, our proposed token-level summarization
approach, which is able to remove redundancies within utterances, outperforms
existing utterance ranking based summarization methods. Finally, context
information is also investigated to add additional relevant information to the
summary.


Focused Meeting Summarization via Unsupervised Relation Extraction

  We present a novel unsupervised framework for focused meeting summarization
that views the problem as an instance of relation extraction. We adapt an
existing in-domain relation learner (Chen et al., 2011) by exploiting a set of
task-specific constraints and features. We evaluate the approach on a decision
summarization task and show that it outperforms unsupervised utterance-level
extractive summarization baselines as well as an existing generic
relation-extraction-based summarization method. Moreover, our approach produces
summaries competitive with those generated by supervised methods in terms of
the standard ROUGE score.


Efficient generation of isolated attosecond pulses with high
  beam-quality by two-color Bessel-Gauss beams

  The generation of isolated attosecond pulses with high efficiency and high
beam quality is essential for attosec- ond spectroscopy. We numerically
investigate the supercontinuum generation in a neutral rare-gas medium driven
by a two-color Bessel-Gauss beam. The results show that an efficient smooth
supercontinuum in the plateau is obtained after propagation, and the spatial
profile of the generated attosecond pulse is Gaussian-like with the divergence
angle of 0.1 degree in the far field. This bright source with high beam quality
is beneficial for detecting and controlling the microscopic processes on
attosecond time scale.


A Remark on a Uniqueness Property of High Multiplicity Tangent Flows in
  Dimension Three

  In this note, we combine the work of Ilmanen and of Colding-Ilmanen-Minicozzi
to observe a uniqueness property for tangent flows at the first singular time
of a smooth mean curvature flow of a closed surface in 3-dimensional Euclidean
space. Specifically, if, at a fixed singular point, one tangent flow is a
positive integer multiple of a shrinking plane, cylinder or sphere, then,
modulo rotations, all tangent flows at the point are the same.


The space of asymptotically conical self-expanders of mean curvature
  flow

  We show that the space of asymptotically conical self-expanders of the mean
curvature flow is a smooth Banach manifold. An immediate consequence is that
non-degenerate self-expanders -- that is, those self-expanders that admit no
non-trivial normal Jacobi fields that fix the asymptotic cone -- are generic in
a certain sense.


An integer degree for asymptotically conical self-expanders

  We establish the existence of an integer degree for the natural projection
map from the space of parameterizations of asymptotically conical
self-expanders to the space of parameterizations of the asymptotic cones when
this map is proper. As an application we show that there is an open set in the
space of cones in the three-dimensional Euclidean space for which each cone in
the set has a strictly unstable self-expanding annuli asymptotic to it.


A note on the duality between Poisson homology and cohomology

  For a Poisson algebra $A$, by studying its universal enveloping algebra
$A^{pe}$, we prove a duality theorem between Poisson homology and cohomology of
$A$.


A Bernstein type theorem for graphic self-shrinkers with flat normal
  bundle

  In this note we will prove that an $n$ dimensional graphic self-shrinker in
$R^{n+m}$ with flat normal bundle is a linear subspace. This result is a
generalization of the corresponding result of Lu Wang in codimension one case.


Cayley graphs generated by small degree polynomials over finite fields

  We improve upper bounds of F. R. K. Chung and of M. Lu, D. Wan, L.-P. Wang,
X.-D. Zhang on the diameter of some Cayley graphs constructed from polynomials
over finite fields.


Further results on the Hamilton-Waterloo problem

  In this paper, we almost completely solve the existence of an almost
resolvable cycle system with odd cycle length. We also use almost resolvable
cycle systems as well as other combinatorial structures to give some new
solutions to the Hamilton-Waterloo problem.


