Efficient 4.42 Î¼m Raman laser based on hollow-core silica fiber

  In this paper we consider mid-infrared Raman lasers based on gas-filled
hollow-core silica fibers and provide theoretical and experimental analysis of
factors that limit the efficiency and output power of these lasers. As a
result, we realized an efficient ns-pulsed 4.42 {\mu}m Raman laser based on an
1H2-filled revolver silica fiber. Quantum efficiency as high as 36 % is
achieved, and output average power as high as 250 mW is demonstrated. The
possibilities of further improving the laser efficiency are discussed.


Online, interactive user guidance for high-dimensional, constrained
  motion planning

  We consider the problem of planning a collision-free path for a
high-dimensional robot. Specifically, we suggest a planning framework where a
motion-planning algorithm can obtain guidance from a user. In contrast to
existing approaches that try to speed up planning by incorporating experiences
or demonstrations ahead of planning, we suggest to seek user guidance only when
the planner identifies that it ceases to make significant progress towards the
goal. Guidance is provided in the form of an intermediate configuration
$\hat{q}$, which is used to bias the planner to go through $\hat{q}$. We
demonstrate our approach for the case where the planning algorithm is
Multi-Heuristic A* (MHA*) and the robot is a 34-DOF humanoid. We show that our
approach allows to compute highly-constrained paths with little domain
knowledge. Without our approach, solving such problems requires
carefully-crafting domain-dependent heuristics.


A Single-Planner Approach to Multi-Modal Humanoid Mobility

  In this work, we present an approach to planning for humanoid mobility.
Humanoid mobility is a challenging problem, as the configuration space for a
humanoid robot is intractably large, especially if the robot is capable of
performing many types of locomotion. For example, a humanoid robot may be able
to perform such tasks as bipedal walking, crawling, and climbing. Our approach
is to plan for all these tasks within a single search process. This allows the
search to reason about all the capabilities of the robot at any point, and to
derive the complete solution such that the plan is guaranteed to be feasible. A
key observation is that we often can roughly decompose a mobility task into a
sequence of smaller tasks, and focus planning efforts to reason over much
smaller search spaces. To this end, we leverage the results of a recently
developed framework for planning with adaptive dimensionality, and incorporate
the capabilities of available controllers directly into the planning process.
The resulting planner can also be run in an interleaved fashion alongside
execution so that time spent idle is much reduced.


Provable Infinite-Horizon Real-Time Planning for Repetitive Tasks

  In manufacturing and automation settings, robots often have to perform
highly-repetitive manipulation tasks in structured environments. In this work
we are interested in settings where tasks are similar, yet not identical (e.g.,
due to uncertain orientation of objects) and motion planning needs to be
extremely fast. Preprocessing-based approaches prove to be very beneficial in
these settings; they analyze the configuration-space offline to generate some
auxiliary information which can then be used in the query phase to speedup
planning times. Typically, the tighter the requirement is on query times the
larger the memory footprint will be. In particular, for high-dimensional
spaces, providing real-time planning capabilities is extremely challenging.
While there are planners that guarantee real-time performance by limiting the
planning horizon, we are not aware of general-purpose planners capable of doing
it for infinite horizon (i.e., planning to the goal). To this end, we propose a
preprocessing-based method that provides provable bounds on the query time
while incurring only a small amount of memory overhead in the query phase. We
evaluate our method on a 7-DOF robot arm and show a speedup of over tenfold in
query time when compared to the PRM algorithm, while provably guaranteeing a
maximum query time of less than 3 milliseconds.


A Homotopy-like Class Invariant for Sub-manifolds of Punctured Euclidean
  Spaces

  We consider the $D$-dimensional Euclidean space, $\mathbb{R}^D$, with certain
$(D-N)$-dimensional compact, closed and orientable sub-manifolds (which we call
\emph{singularity manifolds} and represent by $\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}$)
removed from it. We define and investigate the problem of finding a
homotopy-like class invariant ($\chi$-homotopy) for certain $(N-1)$-dimensional
compact, closed and orientable sub-manifolds (which we call \emph{candidate
manifolds} and represent by $\omega$) of $\mathbb{R}^D \setminus
\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}$, with special emphasis on computational aspects of the
problem. We determine a differential $(N-1)$-form,
$\psi_{\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}}$, such that
$\chi_{\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}}(\omega) = \int_\omega
\psi_{\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}}$ is a class invariant for such candidate
manifolds. We show that the formula agrees with formulae from Cauchy integral
theorem and Residue theorem of complex analysis (when $D=2,N=2$), Biot-Savart
law and Ampere's law of theory of electromagnetism (when $D=3,N=2$), and the
Gauss divergence theorem (when $D=3,N=3$), and discover that the underlying
equivalence relation suggested by each of these well-known theorems is the
$\chi$-homotopy of sub-manifolds of these low dimensional punctured Euclidean
spaces. We describe numerical techniques for computing
$\psi_{\widetilde{\mathcal{S}}}$ and its integral on $\omega$, and give
numerical validations of the proposed theory for a problem in a 5-dimensional
Euclidean space. We also discuss a specific application from \emph{robot path
planning problem}, when N=2, and describe a method for computing least cost
paths with homotopy class constraints using \emph{graph search techniques}.


PERCH: Perception via Search for Multi-Object Recognition and
  Localization

  In many robotic domains such as flexible automated manufacturing or personal
assistance, a fundamental perception task is that of identifying and localizing
objects whose 3D models are known. Canonical approaches to this problem include
discriminative methods that find correspondences between feature descriptors
computed over the model and observed data. While these methods have been
employed successfully, they can be unreliable when the feature descriptors fail
to capture variations in observed data; a classic cause being occlusion. As a
step towards deliberative reasoning, we present PERCH: PErception via SeaRCH,
an algorithm that seeks to find the best explanation of the observed sensor
data by hypothesizing possible scenes in a generative fashion. Our
contributions are: i) formulating the multi-object recognition and localization
task as an optimization problem over the space of hypothesized scenes, ii)
exploiting structure in the optimization to cast it as a combinatorial search
problem on what we call the Monotone Scene Generation Tree, and iii) leveraging
parallelization and recent advances in multi-heuristic search in making
combinatorial search tractable. We prove that our system can guaranteedly
produce the best explanation of the scene under the chosen cost function, and
validate our claims on real world RGB-D test data. Our experimental results
show that we can identify and localize objects under heavy occlusion--cases
where state-of-the-art methods struggle.


Effective Footstep Planning Using Homotopy-Class Guidance

  Planning the motion for humanoid robots is a computationally-complex task due
to the high dimensionality of the system. Thus, a common approach is to first
plan in the low-dimensional space induced by the robot's feet---a task referred
to as footstep planning. This low-dimensional plan is then used to guide the
full motion of the robot. One approach that has proven successful in footstep
planning is using search-based planners such as A* and its many variants. To do
so, these search-based planners have to be endowed with effective heuristics to
efficiently guide them through the search space. However, designing effective
heuristics is a time-consuming task that requires the user to have good domain
knowledge. Thus, our goal is to be able to effectively plan the footstep
motions taken by a humanoid robot while obviating the burden on the user to
carefully design local-minima free heuristics. To this end, we propose to use
user-defined homotopy classes in the workspace that are intuitive to define.
These homotopy classes are used to automatically generate heuristic functions
that efficiently guide the footstep planner. Additionally, we present an
extension to homotopy classes such that they are applicable to complex
multi-level environments. We compare our approach for footstep planning with a
standard approach that uses a heuristic common to footstep planning. In simple
scenarios, the performance of both algorithms is comparable. However, in more
complex scenarios our approach allows for a speedup in planning of several
orders of magnitude when compared to the standard approach.


