Supersymmetry, quark confinement and the harmonic oscillator

  We study some quantum systems described by noncanonical commutation relations
formally expressed as [q,p]=ihbar(I + chi H), where H is the associated
(harmonic oscillator-like) Hamiltonian of the system, and chi is a Hermitian
(constant) operator, i.e. [H,chi]=0 . In passing, we also consider a simple
(chi=0 canonical) model, in the framework of a relativistic Klein-Gordon-like
wave equation.


Chromatic Zagreb indices for graphical embodiment of colour clusters

  For a colour cluster $\mathbb{C} =(\mathcal{C}_1,\mathcal{C}_2,
\mathcal{C}_3,\ldots,\mathcal{C}_\ell)$, where $\mathcal{C}_i$ is a colour
class such that $|\mathcal{C}_i|=r_i$, a positive integer, we investigate two
types of simple connected graph structures $G^{\mathbb{C}}_1$,
$G^{\mathbb{C}}_2$ which represent graphical embodiments of the colour cluster
such that the chromatic numbers
$\chi(G^{\mathbb{C}}_1)=\chi(G^{\mathbb{C}}_2)=\ell$ and
$\min\{\varepsilon(G^{\mathbb{C}}_1)\}=\min\{\varepsilon(G^{\mathbb{C}}_2)\}
=\sum\limits_{i=1}^{\ell}r_i-1$. Therefore, the problem is the edge-minimality
inverse to finding the chromatic number of a given simple connected graph. In
this paper, we also discuss the chromatic Zagreb indices corresponding to
$G^{\mathbb{C}}_1$, $G^{\mathbb{C}}_2$.


Additivity of Heegaard genera of bounded surface sums

  Let $M$ be a surface sum of 3-manifolds $M_1$ and $M_2$ along a bounded
connected surface $F$ and $\partial_i$ be the component of $\partial M_i$
containing $F$. If $M_i$ has a high distance Heegaard splitting, then any
minimal Heegaard splitting of $M$ is the amalgamation of those of $M^1, M^2$
and $M^*$, where $M^i=M_i\setminus\partial_i\times I$, and
$M^{*}=\partial_1\times I\cup_{F} \partial_2\times I$. Furthermore, once both
$\partial_i\setminus F$ are connected, then $g(M) = Min\bigl\{g(M_1)+g(M_2),
\alpha\bigr\}$, where $\alpha = g(M_1) + g(M_2) + 1/2(2\chi(F) + 2 -
\chi(\partial_1) - \chi(\partial_2)) - Max\bigl\{g(\partial_1),
g(\partial_2)\bigl\}$; in particular $g(M)=g(M_1)+g(M_2)$ if and only if
$\chi(F)\geq 1/2Max\bigl\{\chi(\partial_1), \chi(\partial_2)\bigr\}.$
  The proofs rely on Scharlemann-Tomova's theorem.


Parameter Estimation in Astronomy with Poisson-Distributed Data. I. The
  Chi-Square-Gamma Statistic

  Applying the standard weighted mean formula, [sum_i {n_i sigma^{-2}_i}] /
[sum_i {sigma^{-2}_i}], to determine the weighted mean of data, n_i, drawn from
a Poisson distribution, will, on average, underestimate the true mean by ~1 for
all true mean values larger than ~3 when the common assumption is made that the
error of the ith observation is sigma_i = max(sqrt{n_i},1). This small, but
statistically significant offset, explains the long-known observation that
chi-square minimization techniques which use the modified Neyman's chi-square
statistic, chi^2_{N} equiv sum_i (n_i-y_i)^2 / max(n_i,1), to compare
Poisson-distributed data with model values, y_i, will typically predict a total
number of counts that underestimates the true total by about 1 count per bin.
Based on my finding that the weighted mean of data drawn from a Poisson
distribution can be determined using the formula [sum_i [n_i + min(n_i,1)]
(n_i+1)^{-1}] / [sum_i (n_i+1)^{-1}], I propose that a new chi-square
statistic, chi^2_gamma equiv sum_i [n_i + min(n_i,1) - y_i]^2 / [n_i + 1],
should always be used to analyze Poisson-distributed data in preference to the
modified Neyman's chi-square statistic. I demonstrate the power and usefulness
of chi-square-gamma minimization by using two statistical fitting techniques
and five chi-square statistics to analyze simulated X-ray power-law 15-channel
spectra with large and small counts per bin. I show that chi-square-gamma
minimization with the Levenberg-Marquardt or Powell's method can produce
excellent results (mean slope errors <=3%) with spectra having as few as 25
total counts.


Existence of Traveling wave solutions of parabolic-parabolic chemotaxis
  systems

  The current paper is devoted to the study of traveling wave solutions of the
following parabolic-parabolic chemotaxis systems, $$ \begin{cases} u_{t}=
\Delta u-\chi \nabla \cdot (u \nabla v) + u(a-bu),\quad x\in\mathbb{R}^N \tau
v_t=\Delta v-v+u, \quad x\in\mathbb{R}^N, \end{cases} $$ where $u(x,t)$
represents the population density of a mobile species and $v(x,t)$ represents
the population density of a chemoattractant, and $\chi$ represents the
chemotaxis sensitivity. We prove that for every $\tau >0$, there is
$0<\chi_{\tau}^*<\frac{b}{2}$ such that for every $0<\chi<\chi_{\tau}^*$, there
exist two positive numbers $2\sqrt a \le c^{*}(\chi,\tau)<c^{**}(\chi,\tau)$
satisfying that for every $ c\in [ c^{*}(\chi,\tau)\,\ c^{**}(\chi,\tau))$ and
$\xi\in S^{N-1}$, the system has a traveling wave solution
$(u(x,t),v(x,t))=(U(x\cdot\xi-ct;\tau),V(x\cdot\xi-ct;\tau))$ with speed $c$
connecting the constant solutions $(\frac{a}{b},\frac{a}{b})$ and $(0,0)$, and
it does not have such traveling wave solutions of speed less than $2\sqrt a$.
Moreover, $$ \lim_{\chi\to 0^+}c^{**}(\chi,\tau)=\infty,$$ $$ \lim_{\chi\to
0^+}c^{*}(\chi,\tau)=\begin{cases} 2\sqrt{a}\qquad \qquad \qquad\ \text{if}
\quad 0<a\leq \frac{1+\tau a}{(1-\tau)_+}\cr \frac{1+\tau
a}{(1-\tau)_{+}}+\frac{a(1-\tau)_{+}}{1+\tau a}\quad \text{if} \quad a\geq
\frac{1+\tau a}{(1-\tau)_+}, \end{cases} $$ and $$ \lim_{x\to
-\infty}\frac{U(x;\tau)}{e^{-\mu x}}=1, $$ where $\mu$ is the only solution of
the equation $\mu+\frac{a}{\mu}=c$ in the interval $(0, \min\{\sqrt a,
\sqrt{\frac{1+\tau a}{(1-\tau)_+}}\})$. Furthermore, it hods that
$\lim_{\tau\to 0^+}\chi_{\tau}^*=\frac{b}{2}$.


An improved upper bound for the bondage number of graphs on surfaces

  The bondage number $b(G)$ of a graph $G$ is the smallest number of edges
whose removal from $G$ results in a graph with larger domination number.
Recently Gagarin and Zverovich showed that, for a graph $G$ with maximum degree
$\Delta(G)$ and embeddable on an orientable surface of genus $h$ and a
non-orientable surface of genus $k$,
$b(G)\leq\min\{\Delta(G)+h+2,\Delta+k+1\}$. They also gave examples showing
that adjustments of their proofs implicitly provide better results for larger
values of $h$ and $k$. In this paper we establish an improved explicit upper
bound for $b(G)$, using the Euler characteristic $\chi$ instead of the genera
$h$ and $k$, with the relations $\chi=2-2h$ and $\chi=2-k$. We show that
$b(G)\leq\Delta(G)+\lfloor r\rfloor$ for the case $\chi\leq0$ (i.e. $h\geq1$ or
$k\geq2$), where $r$ is the largest real root of the cubic equation
$z^3+2z^2+(6\chi-7)z+18\chi-24=0$. Our proof is based on the technique
developed by Carlson-Develin and Gagarin-Zverovich, and includes some
elementary calculus as a new ingredient. We also find an asymptotically
equivalent result $b(G)\leq\Delta(G)+\lceil\sqrt{12-6\chi\,}-1/2\rceil$ for
$\chi\leq0$, and a further improvement for graphs with large girth.


On Hanf numbers of the infinitary order property

  We study several cardinal, and ordinal--valued functions that are relatives
of Hanf numbers. Let kappa be an infinite cardinal, and let T subseteq
L_{kappa^+, omega} be a theory of cardinality <= kappa, and let gamma be an
ordinal >= kappa^+. For example we look at (1) mu_{T}^*(gamma, kappa):= min
{mu^* for all phi in L_{infinity, omega}, with rk(phi)< gamma, if T has the
(phi, mu^*)-order property then there exists a formula phi'(x;y) in L_{kappa^+,
omega}, such that for every chi >= kappa, T has the (phi', chi)-order
property}; and (2) mu^*(gamma, kappa):= sup{mu_T^*(gamma, kappa)| T in
L_{kappa^+,omega}}.


Homomorphism Complexes and k-Cores

  We prove that the topological connectivity of a graph homomorphism complex
Hom($G,K_m$) is at least $m-D(G)-2$, where $\displaystyle D(G)=\max_{H\subseteq
G}\delta(H)$. This is a strong generalization of a theorem of Cuki\'{c} and
Kozlov, in which $D(G)$ is replaced by the maximum degree $\Delta(G)$. It also
generalizes the graph theoretic bound for chromatic number,
$\displaystyle\chi(G)\leq D(G)+1$, as $\displaystyle\chi(G)=\min\{
m:\text{Hom}(G,K_m)\neq\varnothing\}$. Furthermore, we use this result to
examine homological phase transitions in the random polyhedral complexes
Hom$(G(n,p),K_m)$ when $p=c/n$ for a fixed constant $c > 0$.


Prescribed Gauss curvature problem on singular surfaces

  We study the existence of at least one conformal metric of prescribed
Gaussian curvature on a closed surface $\Sigma$ admitting conical singularities
of orders $\alpha_i$'s at points $p_i$'s. In particular, we are concerned with
the case where the prescribed Gaussian curvature is sign-changing. Such a
geometrical problem reduces to solving a singular Liouville equation. By
employing a min-max scheme jointly with a finite dimensional reduction method,
we deduce new perturbative results providing existence when the quantity
$\chi(\Sigma)+\sum_i \alpha_i$ approaches a positive even integer, where
$\chi(\Sigma)$ is the Euler characteristic of the surface $\Sigma$.


Hybrid bounds for twists of $GL(3)$ $L$-functions

  Let $\pi$ be a Hecke-Maass cusp form for $SL(3,\mathbb{Z})$ and
$\chi=\chi_1\chi_2$ a Dirichlet character with $\chi_i$ primitive modulo $M_i$.
Suppose that $M_1$, $M_2$ are primes such that
$\max\{(M|t|)^{1/3+2\delta/3},M^{2/5}|t|^{-9/20},
M^{1/2+2\delta}|t|^{-3/4+2\delta}\}(M|t|)^{\varepsilon}<M_1< \min\{
(M|t|)^{2/5},(M|t|)^{1/2-8\delta}\}(M|t|)^{-\varepsilon}$ for any
$\varepsilon>0$, where $M=M_1M_2$, $|t|\geq 1$ and $0<\delta< 1/52$. Then we
have $$ L\left(\frac{1}{2}+it,\pi\otimes \chi\right)\ll_{\pi,\varepsilon}
(M|t|)^{3/4-\delta+\varepsilon}. $$


Exact Complexity of Exact-Four-Colorability

  Let $M_k \seq \nats$ be a given set that consists of $k$ noncontiguous
integers. Define $\exactcolor{M_k}$ to be the problem of determining whether
$\chi(G)$, the chromatic number of a given graph $G$, equals one of the $k$
elements of the set $M_k$ exactly. In 1987, Wagner \cite{wag:j:min-max} proved
that $\exactcolor{M_k}$ is $\bhlevel{2k}$-complete, where $M_k = \{6k+1, 6k+3,
>..., 8k-1 \}$ and $\bhlevel{2k}$ is the $2k$th level of the boolean hierarchy
over $\np$. In particular, for $k = 1$, it is DP-complete to determine whether
$\chi(G) = 7$, where $\DP = \bhlevel{2}$. Wagner raised the question of how
small the numbers in a $k$-element set $M_k$ can be chosen such that
$\exactcolor{M_k}$ still is $\bhlevel{2k}$-complete. In particular, for $k =
1$, he asked if it is DP-complete to determine whether $\chi(G) = 4$. In this
note, we solve this question of Wagner and determine the precise threshold $t
\in \{4, 5, 6, 7\}$ for which the problem $\exactcolor{\{t\}}$ jumps from NP to
DP-completeness: It is DP-complete to determine whether $\chi(G) = 4$, yet
$\exactcolor{\{3\}}$ is in $\np$. More generally, for each $k \geq 1$, we show
that $\exactcolor{M_k}$ is $\bhlevel{2k}$-complete for $M_k = \{3k+1, 3k+3,...,
5k-1\}$.


The chromatic spectrum of signed graphs

  The chromatic number $\chi((G,\sigma))$ of a signed graph $(G,\sigma)$ is the
smallest number $k$ for which there is a function $c : V(G) \rightarrow
\mathbb{Z}_k$ such that $c(v) \not= \sigma(e) c(w)$ for every edge $e = vw$.
Let $\Sigma(G)$ be the set of all signatures of $G$. We study the chromatic
spectrum $\Sigma_{\chi}(G) = \{\chi((G,\sigma))\colon\ \sigma \in \Sigma(G)\}$
of $(G,\sigma)$. Let $M_{\chi}(G) = \max\{\chi((G,\sigma))\colon\ \sigma \in
\Sigma(G)\}$, and $m_{\chi}(G) = \min\{\chi((G,\sigma))\colon\ \sigma \in
\Sigma(G)\}$. We show that $\Sigma_{\chi}(G) = \{k : m_{\chi}(G) \leq k \leq
M_{\chi}(G)\}$. We also prove some basic facts for critical graphs.
  Analogous results are obtained for a notion of vertex-coloring of signed
graphs which was introduced by M\'{a}\v{c}ajov\'{a}, Raspaud, and \v{S}koviera.


Neighborhood complexes, homotopy test graphs and a contribution to a
  conjecture of Hedetniemi

  The neighborhood complex $\N(G)$ of a graph $G$ were introduced by L.
Lov{\'a}sz in his proof of Kneser conjecture. He proved that for any graph $G$,
  \begin{align} \label{abstract} \chi(G) \geq conn(\N(G))+3.
  \end{align}
  In this article we show that for a class of exponential graphs the bound
given in (\ref{abstract}) is sharp. Further, we show that the neighborhood
complexes of these exponential graphs are spheres up to homotopy.
  We were also able to find a class of exponential graphs, which are homotopy
test graphs.
  Hedetniemi's conjecture states that the chromatic number of the categorical
product of two graphs is the minimum of the chromatic number of the factors.
Let $M(G)$ denotes the Mycielskian of a graph $G$. We show that, for any graph
$G$ containing $M(M(K_n))$ as a subgraph and for any graph $H$, if $\chi(G
\times H) = n+1$, then $\min\{\chi(G), \chi(H)\} = n+1$. Therefore, we enrich
the family of graphs satisfying the Hedetniemi's conjecture.


Pseudo-Anosovs on closed surfaces having small entropy and the Whitehead
  sister link exterior

  Let $\delta_g$ be the minimal dilatation for pseudo-Anosovs on a closed
surface $\Sigma_g$ of genus $g$ and let $\delta_g^+$ be the minimal dilatation
for pseudo-Anosovs on $\Sigma_g$ with orientable invariant foliations. This
paper concerns the pseudo-Anosovs which occur as the monodromies on closed
fibers for Dehn fillings of $N(r)$ for each $r \in \{-3/2, -1/2, 2\}$ of the
magic manifold $N$. The manifold $N(-3/2)$ is homeomorphic to the Whitehead
sister link exterior.
  We consider the set $\Lambda_g(r)$ (resp. $\Lambda_g^+(r)$) which consists of
the dilatations of all monodromies (resp. monodromies having orientable
invariant foliations) on a closed fiber of genus $g$ for Dehn fillings of
$N(r)$, where the fillings are on the boundary slopes of fibers of $N(r)$.
Hironaka obtained upper bounds of $\delta_g$ and $\delta_g^+$ by computing
$\min \Lambda_g(-1/2)$ and $\min \Lambda^+_g(-1/2)$ respectively. We prove that
$\min \Lambda_g(-3/2)< \min \Lambda_g(-1/2)$ for $g \equiv 0,1,5,6,7,9
\pmod{10}$ and $\min \Lambda^+_g(-3/2)< \min \Lambda^+_g(-1/2)$ for $g \equiv
1,5,7,9 \pmod{10}$. These inequalities improve the previous upper bounds of
$\delta_g$ and $\delta_g^+$ for these $g$.
  We prove that for each $r \in \{-3/2, -1/2, 2\}$ and each $g \ge 3$, there
exists a monodromy $\Phi_g(r)$ on a closed fiber of genus $g $ for a Dehn
filling of $N(r)$ such that its dilatation $\lambda(\Phi_g(r))$ satisfies
$\displaystyle \lim_{g \to \infty} |\chi(\Sigma_g)| \log \lambda (\Phi_g(r)) =
2 \log((3+\sqrt{5})/2)$.


The Value of Interaction in Data Intelligence

  In human computer interaction (HCI), it is common to evaluate the value of
HCI designs, techniques, devices, and systems in terms of their benefit to
users. It is less common to discuss the benefit of HCI to computers. Every HCI
task allows a computer to receive some data from the user. In many situations,
the data received by the computer embodies human knowledge and intelligence in
handling complex problems, and/or some critical information without which the
computer cannot proceed. In this paper, we present an information-theoretic
framework for quantifying the knowledge received by the computer from its users
via HCI. We apply information-theoretic measures to some common HCI tasks as
well as HCI tasks in complex data intelligence processes. We formalize the
methods for estimating such quantities analytically and measuring them
empirically. Using theoretical reasoning, we can confirm the significant but
often undervalued role of HCI in data intelligence workflows.


Minimization of Storage Cost in Distributed Storage Systems with Repair
  Consideration

  In a distributed storage system, the storage costs of different storage
nodes, in general, can be different. How to store a file in a given set of
storage nodes so as to minimize the total storage cost is investigated. By
analyzing the min-cut constraints of the information flow graph, the feasible
region of the storage capacities of the nodes can be determined. The storage
cost minimization can then be reduced to a linear programming problem, which
can be readily solved. Moreover, the tradeoff between storage cost and
repair-bandwidth is established.


About maximal number of edges in hypergraph-clique with chromatic number
  3

  Let $ H = (V,E) $ be a hypergraph. By the chromatic number of a hypergraph $
H = (V,E) $ we mean the minimum number $\chi(H)$ of colors needed to paint all
the vertices in $ V $ so that any edge $ e \in E $ contains at least two
vertices of some different colors. Finally, a hypergraph is said to form a
clique, if its edges are pairwise intersecting.
  In 1973 Erd\H{o}s and Lov\'asz noticed that if an $n$-uniform hypergraph $ H
= (V,E) $ forms a clique, then $ \chi(H) \in \{2,3\} $. They untoduced
following quantity. $$ M(n) = \max \{|E|: \exists {\rm an} n-{\rm uniform} {\rm
clique} H = (V,E) {\rm with} \chi(H) = 3\}. $$ Obviously such definition has no
sense in the case of $ \chi(H) = 2 $.
  Theorem 1 (P. Erdos, L. Lovasz} The inequalities hold $$ n!(e-1) \le M(n) \le
n^n. $$
  Almost nothing better has been done during the last 35 years.
  At the same time, another quantity $ r(n) $ was introduced by Lovasz r(n) =
\max \{|E|: ~ \exists {\rm an} ~ n-{\rm uniform} ~ {\rm clique} ~ H = (V,E) ~
{\rm s.t.} ~ \tau(H) = n\}, $$ where $ \tau(H) $ is the {\it covering number}
of $ H $, i.e., $$ \tau(H) = \min \{|f|: ~ f \subset V, ~ \forall ~ e \in E ~ f
\cap e \neq \emptyset\}. $$ Clearly, for any $n$-uniform clique $ H $, we have
$ \tau(H) \le n $, and if $ \chi(H) = 3 $, then $ \tau(H) = n $. Thus, $ M(n)
\le r(n) $. Lov\'asz noticed that for $ r(n) $ the same estimates as in Theorem
1 apply and conjectured that the lower estimate is best possible. In 1996 P.
Frankl, K. Ota, and N. Tokushige disproved this conjecture and showed that $
r(n) \ge (\frac{n}{2})^{n-1} $.
  We discovered a new upper bound for the r(n) (so for M(n) too).
  Theorem 2. $$ M(n) \leq r(n) \le c n^{n-1/2} \ln n. $$, where c is a
constant.


r-Dynamic Chromatic Number of Graphs

  An $r$-dynamic $k$-coloring of a graph $G$ is a proper vertex $k$-coloring
such that the neighbors of any vertex $v$ receive at least $\min\{r,{\rm
deg}(v)\}$ different colors. The $r$-dynamic chromatic number of $G$,
$\chi_r(G)$, is defined as the smallest $k$ such that $G$ admits an $r$-dynamic
$k$-coloring. In this paper we introduce an upper bound for $\chi_r(G)$ in
terms of $r$, chromatic number, maximum degree and minimum degree. In 2001,
Montgomery \cite{MR2702379} conjectured that, for a $d$-regular graph $G$,
$\chi_2(G)-\chi(G)\leq 2$. In this regard, for a $d$-regular graph $G$, we
present two upper bounds for $\chi_2(G)-\chi(G)$, one of them, $\lceil
5.437\log d+2.721\rceil$, is an improvement of the bound $14.06\log d +1$,
proved by Alishahi (2011) \cite{MR2746973}. Also, we give an upper bound for
$\chi_2(G)$ in terms of chromatic number, maximum degree and minimum degree.


Electron-boson spectral density of LiFeAs obtained from optical data

  We analyze existing optical data in the superconducting state of LiFeAs at $T
=$ 4 K, to recover its electron-boson spectral density. A maximum entropy
technique is employed to extract the spectral density $I^2\chi(\omega)$ from
the optical scattering rate. Care is taken to properly account for elastic
impurity scattering which can importantly affect the optics in an $s$-wave
superconductor, but does not eliminate the boson structure. We find a robust
peak in $I^2\chi(\omega)$ centered about $\Omega_R \cong$ 8.0 meV or 5.3 $k_B
T_c$ (with $T_c =$ 17.6 K). Its position in energy agrees well with a similar
structure seen in scanning tunneling spectroscopy (STS). There is also a peak
in the inelastic neutron scattering (INS) data at this same energy. This peak
is found to persist in the normal state at $T =$ 23 K. There is evidence that
the superconducting gap is anisotropic as was also found in low temperature
angular resolved photoemission (ARPES) data.


Hedetniemi's Conjecture Via Altermatic Number

  A $50$ years unsolved conjecture by Hedetniemi [{\it Homomorphisms of graphs
and automata, \newblock {\em Thesis (Ph.D.)--University of Michigan}, 1966}]
asserts that the chromatic number of the categorical product of two graphs $G$
and $H$ is $\min\{\chi(G),\chi(H)\}$. The present authors [{\it On the
chromatic number of general {K}neser hypergraphs. \newblock {\em Journal of
Combinatorial Theory, Series B}, 2015.}] introduced the altermatic and the
strong altermatic number of graphs as two tight lower bounds for the chromatic
number of graphs. In this work, we prove a relaxation of Hedetniemi's
conjecture in terms of strong altermatic number. Also, we present a tight lower
bound for the chromatic number of the categorical product of two graphs in term
of their altermatic and strong altermatic numbers. These results enrich the
family of pair graphs $\{G,H\}$ satisfying Hedetniemi's conjecture.


Potentially Large One-loop Corrections to WIMP Annihilation

  We compute one-loop corrections to the annihilation of non--relativistic
particles $\chi$ due to the exchange of a (gauge or Higgs) boson $\phi$ with
mass $\mu$ in the initial state. In the limit $m_\chi \gg \mu$ this leads to
the "Sommerfeld enhancement" of the annihilation cross section. However, here
we are interested in the case $\mu \lsim m_\chi$, where the one--loop
corrections are well--behaved, but can still be sizable. We find simple and
accurate expressions for annihilation from both $S-$ and $P-$wave initial
states; they differ from each other if $\mu \neq 0$. In order to apply our
results to the calculation of the relic density of Weakly Interacting Massive
Particles (WIMPs), we describe how to compute the thermal average of the
corrected cross sections. We apply this formalism to scalar and Dirac fermion
singlet WIMPs, and show that the corrections are always very small in the
former case, but can be very large in the latter. Moreover, in the context of
the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model, these corrections can decrease the
relic density of neutralinos by more than 1%, if the lightest neutralino is a
strongly mixed state.


Upper bounds for the 2-hued chromatic number of graphs in terms of the
  independence number

  A 2-hued coloring of a graph $G$ (also known as conditional $(k, 2)$-coloring
and dynamic coloring) is a coloring such that for every vertex $v\in V(G)$ of
degree at least $2$, the neighbors of $v$ receive at least $2$ colors. The
smallest integer $k$ such that $G$ has a 2-hued coloring with $ k $ colors, is
called the {\it 2-hued chromatic number} of $G$ and denoted by $\chi_2(G)$. In
this paper, we will show that if $G$ is a regular graph, then $ \chi_{2}(G)-
\chi(G) \leq 2 \log _{2}(\alpha(G)) +\mathcal{O}(1) $ and if $G$ is a graph and
$\delta(G)\geq 2$, then $ \chi_{2}(G)- \chi(G) \leq 1+\lceil \sqrt[\delta
-1]{4\Delta^{2}} \rceil ( 1+ \log _{\frac{2\Delta(G)}{2\Delta(G)-\delta(G)}}
(\alpha(G)) ) $ and in general case if $G$ is a graph, then $ \chi_{2}(G)-
\chi(G) \leq 2+ \min \lbrace
\alpha^{\prime}(G),\frac{\alpha(G)+\omega(G)}{2}\rbrace $.


SUSY explanation of the Fermi Galactic Center Excess and its test at LHC
  Run-II

  We explore the explanation of the Fermi Galactic Center Excess (GCE) in the
Next-to-Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model. We systematically consider
various experimental constraints including the Dark Matter (DM) relic density,
DM direct detection results and indirect searches from dwarf galaxies. We find
that, for DM with mass ranging from $30 {\rm GeV}$ to $40 {\rm GeV}$, the GCE
can be explained by the annihilation $\chi \chi \to a^\ast \to b \bar{b}$ only
when the CP-odd scalar satisfies $m_a \simeq 2 m_\chi$, and in order to obtain
the measured DM relic density, a sizable $Z$-mediated contribution to DM
annihilation must intervene in the early universe. As a result, the higgsino
mass $\mu$ is upper bounded by about 350 GeV. Detailed Monte Carlo simulations
on the $3\ell+ E_T^{miss}$ signal from neutralino/chargino associated
production at 14-TeV LHC indicate that the explanation can be mostly
(completely) excluded at $95\%$ C.L. with an integrated luminosity of 100(200)
fb$^{-1}$. We also discuss the implication of possible large $Z$ coupling to DM
for the DM-nucleon spin dependent (SD) scattering cross section, and find that
although the current experimental bounds on $\sigma^{\rm SD}_p$ is less
stringent than the spin independent (SI) results, the future XENON-1T and LZ
data may be capable of testing most parts of the GCE-favored parameter region.


Time lag between prompt optical emission and gamma-rays in GRBs

  The prompt optical emission contemporaneous with the $\gamma$-rays from
$\gamma$-ray bursts (GRBs) carries important information on the central engine
and explosion mechanism. We study the time lag between prompt optical emission
and $\gamma$-rays in GRB 990123 and GRB 041219a, which are the only two GRBs
had been detected at optical wavelengths during the ascending burst phase.
Assuming profiles of prompt optical light curves are the same as the prompt
$\gamma$-rays, we simulate optical light curves with different time lags and
compare them with the observed optical flux. Then the best fit time lag and its
error are determined by chi-squared values. We find that time lags between
prompt optical emission and $\gamma$-rays in GRB host galaxy rest-frames are
consistent in the two GRBs, which is $5\sim7$ s for GRB 990123 and $1\sim5$ s
for GRB 041219a. This result is consistent with a common origin of prompt
optical and $\gamma$-ray emissions in the two GRBs. Based on synchrotron
cooling model, we also derive the parameters for the two GRBs.


On the Fairness of Rate Allocation in Gaussian Multiple Access Channel
  and Broadcast Channel

  The capacity region of a channel consists of all achievable rate vectors.
Picking a particular point in the capacity region is synonymous with rate
allocation. The issue of fairness in rate allocation is addressed in this
paper. We review several notions of fairness, including max-min fairness,
proportional fairness and Nash bargaining solution. Their efficiencies for
general multiuser channels are discussed. We apply these ideas to the Gaussian
multiple access channel (MAC) and the Gaussian broadcast channel (BC). We show
that in the Gaussian MAC, max-min fairness and proportional fairness coincide.
For both Gaussian MAC and BC, we devise efficient algorithms that locate the
fair point in the capacity region. Some elementary properties of fair rate
allocations are proved.


On Learning Markov Chains

  The problem of estimating an unknown discrete distribution from its samples
is a fundamental tenet of statistical learning. Over the past decade, it
attracted significant research effort and has been solved for a variety of
divergence measures. Surprisingly, an equally important problem, estimating an
unknown Markov chain from its samples, is still far from understood. We
consider two problems related to the min-max risk (expected loss) of estimating
an unknown $k$-state Markov chain from its $n$ sequential samples: predicting
the conditional distribution of the next sample with respect to the
KL-divergence, and estimating the transition matrix with respect to a natural
loss induced by KL or a more general $f$-divergence measure.
  For the first measure, we determine the min-max prediction risk to within a
linear factor in the alphabet size, showing it is $\Omega(k\log\log n\ / n)$
and $\mathcal{O}(k^2\log\log n\ / n)$. For the second, if the transition
probabilities can be arbitrarily small, then only trivial uniform risk upper
bounds can be derived. We therefore consider transition probabilities that are
bounded away from zero, and resolve the problem for essentially all
sufficiently smooth $f$-divergences, including KL-, $L_2$-, Chi-squared,
Hellinger, and Alpha-divergences.


Fourier expansions of GL(2) newforms at various cusps

  This paper studies the Fourier expansion of Hecke-Maass eigenforms for $GL(2,
\mathbb Q)$ of arbitrary weight, level, and character at various cusps.
Translating well known results in the theory of adelic automorphic
representations into classical language, a multiplicative expression for the
Fourier coefficients at any cusp is derived. In general, this expression
involves Fourier coefficients at several different cusps. A sufficient
condition for the existence of multiplicative relations among Fourier
coefficients at a single cusp is given. It is shown that if the level is 4
times (or in some cases 8 times) an odd squarefree number then there are
multiplicative relations at every cusp. We also show that a local
representation of $GL(2, \mathbb Q_p)$ which is isomorphic to a local factor of
a global cuspidal automorphic representation generated by the adelic lift of a
newform of arbitrary weight, level $N$, and character $\chi\pmod{N}$ cannot be
supercuspidal if $\chi$ is primitive. Furthermore, it is supercuspidal if and
only if at every cusp (of width $m$ and cusp parameter = 0) the $mp^\ell$
Fourier coefficient, at that cusp, vanishes for all sufficiently large positive
integers $\ell$. In the last part of this paper a three term identity involving
the Fourier expansion at three different cusps is derived.


Global Convergence of Non-Convex Gradient Descent for Computing Matrix
  Squareroot

  While there has been a significant amount of work studying gradient descent
techniques for non-convex optimization problems over the last few years, all
existing results establish either local convergence with good rates or global
convergence with highly suboptimal rates, for many problems of interest. In
this paper, we take the first step in getting the best of both worlds --
establishing global convergence and obtaining a good rate of convergence for
the problem of computing squareroot of a positive definite (PD) matrix, which
is a widely studied problem in numerical linear algebra with applications in
machine learning and statistics among others. Given a PD matrix $M$ and a PD
starting point $U_0$, we show that gradient descent with appropriately chosen
step-size finds an $\epsilon$-accurate squareroot of $M$ in $O(\alpha \log
(\|M-U_0^2\|_F /\epsilon))$ iterations, where $\alpha =
(\max\{\|U_0\|_2^2,\|M\|_2\} / \min \{\sigma_{\min}^2(U_0),\sigma_{\min}(M) \}
)^{3/2}$. Our result is the first to establish global convergence for this
problem and that it is robust to errors in each iteration. A key contribution
of our work is the general proof technique which we believe should further
excite research in understanding deterministic and stochastic variants of
simple non-convex gradient descent algorithms with good global convergence
rates for other problems in machine learning and numerical linear algebra.


Higgs decay to goldstini and its observability at the LHC

  If supersymmetry is broken independently in multiple sectors with different
scales, a number of goldstinos will be generated. One linear combination of
these goldstinos is massless and eaten by the gravitino, while the orthogonal
combinations acquire a tree level mass and become the physical states named
goldstini (G'). Compared to the gravitino, such goldstini could couple more
strongly to the visible fields and lead to some exotic phenomenology. In this
note we first check the goldstini couplings in some GMSB models and find that
the goldstini-photon-neutralino interaction may be very small while the
goldstini-Z-neutralino and goldstini-Higgs-neutralino interactions may be
sizable. This can induce a new decay mode for the Higgs boson: h-> G'+\chi ->
Z+2G'. Then in an effective model with conservative fixed parameters we study
the observability of this decay channel at the LHC and find that it is not
accessible at the finished 8 TeV run (25 /fb) or 14 TeV run with 100 /fb, but
might be observed at the high luminosity LHC (14 TeV, 1000-3000 /fb) if the
systematics of the backgrounds can be well understood.


Pair Production of a 125 GeV Higgs Boson in MSSM and NMSSM at the LHC

  In light of the recent LHC Higgs search data, we investigate the pair
production of a SM-like Higgs boson around 125 GeV in the MSSM and NMSSM. We
first scan the parameter space of each model by considering various
experimental constraints, and then calculate the Higgs pair production rate in
the allowed parameter space. We find that in most cases the dominant
contribution to the Higgs pair production comes from the gluon fusion process
and the production rate can be greatly enhanced, maximally 10 times larger than
the SM prediction (even for a TeV-scale stop the production rate can still be
enhanced by a factor of 1.3). We also calculate the chi-square value with the
current Higgs data and find that in the most favored parameter region the
production rate is enhanced by a factor of 1.45 in the MSSM, while in the NMSSM
the production rate can be enhanced or suppressed (\sigma_{SUSY}/\sigma_{SM}
varies from 0.7 to 2.4).


Multicell Coordinated Beamforming with Rate Outage Constraint--Part I:
  Complexity Analysis

  This paper studies the coordinated beamforming (CoBF) design in the
multiple-input single-output interference channel, assuming only channel
distribution information given a priori at the transmitters. The CoBF design is
formulated as an optimization problem that maximizes a predefined system
utility, e.g., the weighted sum rate or the weighted max-min-fairness (MMF)
rate, subject to constraints on the individual probability of rate outage and
power budget. While the problem is non-convex and appears difficult to handle
due to the intricate outage probability constraints, so far it is still unknown
if this outage constrained problem is computationally tractable. To answer
this, we conduct computational complexity analysis of the outage constrained
CoBF problem. Specifically, we show that the outage constrained CoBF problem
with the weighted sum rate utility is intrinsically difficult, i.e., NP-hard.
Moreover, the outage constrained CoBF problem with the weighted MMF rate
utility is also NP-hard except the case when all the transmitters are equipped
with single antenna. The presented analysis results confirm that efficient
approximation methods are indispensable to the outage constrained CoBF problem.


Context-aware Computing in the Internet of Things: A Survey on Internet
  of Things From Industrial Market Perspective

  The Internet of Things (IoT) is a dynamic global information network
consisting of Internet-connected objects, such as RFIDs, sensors, and
actuators, as well as other instruments and smart appliances that are becoming
an integral component of the Internet. Over the last few years, we have seen a
plethora of IoT solutions making their way into the industry marketplace.
Context-aware communication and computing has played a critical role throughout
the last few years of ubiquitous computing and is expected to play a
significant role in the IoT paradigm as well. In this article, we examine a
variety of popular and innovative IoT solutions in terms of context-aware
technology perspectives. More importantly, we evaluate these IoT solutions
using a framework that we built around well-known context-aware computing
theories. This survey is intended to serve as a guideline and a conceptual
framework for contextaware product development and research in the IoT
paradigm. It also provides a systematic exploration of existing IoT products in
the marketplace and highlights a number of potentially significant research
directions and trends.


RF-Based Charger Placement for Duty Cycle Guarantee in Battery-Free
  Sensor Networks

  Battery-free sensor networks have emerged as a promising solution to conquer
the lifetime limitation of battery-powered systems. In this paper, we study a
sensor network built from battery-free sensor nodes which harvest energy from
radio frequency (RF) signals transmitted by RF-based chargers, e.g., radio
frequency identification (RFID) readers. Due to the insufficiency of harvested
energy, the sensor nodes have to work in duty cycles to harvest enough energy
before turning active and performing tasks. One fundamental issue in this kind
of network design is how to deploy the chargers to ensure that the battery-free
nodes can maintain a designated duty cycle for continuous operation. Based on a
new wireless recharge model, we formulate the charger placement problem for
node's duty cycle guarantee as a constrained optimization problem. We develop
both greedy and efficient heuristics for solving the problem and validate our
solutions through extensive simulations. The simulation results show that the
proposed particle swarm optimization (PSO)-based divide-and-conquer approach
can effectively reduce the number of chargers compared with the greedy
approach.


On the dimension of Furstenberg measure for $SL_2(R)$ random matrix
  products

  Let $\mu$ be a measure on $SL_{2}(\mathbb{R})$ generating a non-compact and
totally irreducible subgroup, let $\chi>0$ denote its Lyapunov exponent, and
let $\nu$ be the associated stationary (Furstenberg) measure for the action on
the projective line. We prove that if $\mu$ is supported on finitely many
matrices with algebraic entries, then \[
\dim\nu=\min\{1,\frac{h_{\textrm{RW}}(\mu)}{2\chi}\} \] where
$h_{\textrm{RW}}(\mu)$ is the random walk entropy of $\mu$, and $\dim$ denotes
pointwise dimension. In particular, for every $\delta>0$, there is a
neighborhood $U$ of the identity in $SL_{2}(\mathbb{R})$ such that if a measure
$\mu\in\mathcal{P}(U)$ is supported on algebraic matrices with all atoms of
size at least $\delta$, and generates a group which is non-compact and totally
irreducible, then its stationary measure $\nu$ satisfies $\dim\nu=1$.


Rectilinear Link Diameter and Radius in a Rectilinear Polygonal Domain

  We study the computation of the diameter and radius under the rectilinear
link distance within a rectilinear polygonal domain of $n$ vertices and $h$
holes. We introduce a \emph{graph of oriented distances} to encode the distance
between pairs of points of the domain. This helps us transform the problem so
that we can search through the candidates more efficiently. Our algorithm
computes both the diameter and the radius in $\min \{\,O(n^\omega), O(n^2 + nh
\log h + \chi^2)\,\}$ time, where $\omega<2.373$ denotes the matrix
multiplication exponent and $\chi\in \Omega(n)\cap O(n^2)$ is the number of
edges of the graph of oriented distances. We also provide a faster algorithm
for computing the diameter that runs in $O(n^2 \log n)$ time.


Distributed coloring of graphs with an optimal number of colors

  This paper studies sufficient conditions to obtain efficient distributed
algorithms coloring graphs optimally (i.e.\ with the minimum number of colors)
in the LOCAL model of computation. Most of the work on distributed vertex
coloring so far has focused on coloring graphs of maximum degree $\Delta$ with
at most $\Delta+1$ colors (or $\Delta$ colors when some simple obstructions are
forbidden). When $\Delta$ is sufficiently large and $c\ge \Delta-k_\Delta+1$,
for some integer $k_\Delta\approx \sqrt{\Delta}-2$, we give a distributed
algorithm that given a $c$-colorable graph $G$ of maximum degree $\Delta$,
finds a $c$-coloring of $G$ in $\min\{O((\log\Delta)^{1/12}\log n), 2^{O(\log
\Delta+\sqrt{\log \log n})}\}$ rounds, with high probability. The lower bound
$\Delta-k_\Delta+1$ is best possible in the sense that for infinitely many
values of $\Delta$, we prove that when $\chi(G)\le \Delta -k_\Delta$, finding
an optimal coloring of $G$ requires $\Omega(n)$ rounds. Our proof is a light
adaptation of a remarkable result of Molloy and Reed, who proved that for
$\Delta$ large enough, for any $c\ge \Delta - k_\Delta$ deciding whether
$\chi(G)\le c$ is in {\textsf{P}}, while Embden-Weinert \emph{et al.}\ proved
that for $c\le \Delta-k_\Delta-1$, the same problem is {\textsf{NP}}-complete.
Note that the sequential and distributed thresholds differ by one. We also show
that for any sufficiently large $\Delta$, and $\Omega(\log \Delta)\le k \le
\Delta/100$, every graph of maximum degree $\Delta$ and clique number at most
$\Delta-k$ can be efficiently colored with at most $\Delta-\varepsilon k$
colors, for some absolute constant $\varepsilon >0$, with a randomized
algorithm running in $O(\log n/\log \log n)$ rounds with high probability.


Status of low energy SUSY models confronted with the LHC 125 GeV Higgs
  data

  Confronted with the LHC data of a Higgs boson around 125 GeV, different
models of low energy SUSY show different behaviors: some are favored, some are
marginally survived and some are strongly disfavored or excluded. In this note
we update our previous scan over the parameter space of various low energy SUSY
models by considering the latest experimental limits like the LHCb data for
B_s->\mu^+\mu^- and the XENON 100(2012) data for dark matter-neucleon
scattering. Then we confront the predicted properties of the SM-like Higgs
boson in each model with the combined 7 TeV and 8 TeV Higgs search data of the
LHC. For a SM-like Higgs boson around 125 GeV, we have the following
observations: (i) The most favored model is the NMSSM, whose predictions about
the Higgs boson can naturally (without any fine tuning) agree with the
experimental data at 1-sigma level, better than the SM; (ii) The MSSM can fit
the LHC data quite well but suffer from some extent of fine tuning; (iii) The
nMSSM is excluded at 3-sigma level after considering all the available Higgs
data; (iv) The CMSSM is quite disfavored since it is hard to give a 125 GeV
Higgs boson mass and at the same time cannot enhance the di-photon signal rate.


Dark matter in little Higgs model under current experimental constraints
  from LHC, Planck and Xenon

  We examine the status of dark matter (heavy photon) in the littlest Higgs
model with T-parity (LHT) in light of the new results from the LHC Higgs
search, the Planck dark matter relic density and the XENON100 limit on the dark
matter scattering off the nucleon. We obtain the following observations: (i)
For the LHC Higgs data, the LHT can well be consistent with the CMS results but
disfavored by the ATLAS observation of diphoton enhancement; (ii) For the dark
matter relic density, the heavy photon in the LHT can account for the Planck
data for the small mass splitting of mirror lepton and heavy photon; (iii) For
the dark matter scattering off the nucleon, the heavy photon can give a
spin-independent cross section below the XENON100 upper limit for $m_{A_H}>95$
GeV ($f> 665$ GeV); (iv) A fit using the CMS Higgs data gives the lowest
chi-square of 2.63 (the SM value is 4.75) at $f\simeq$ 1120 GeV and
$m_{A_H}\simeq$ 170 GeV (at this point the dark matter constraints from Planck
and XENON100 can also be satisfied). Such a best point and its nearby favored
region (even for a $f$ value up to 3.8 TeV) can be covered by the future
XENON1T (2017) experiment.


Quantum Chi-Squared and Goodness of Fit Testing

  The density matrix in quantum mechanics parameterizes the statistical
properties of the system under observation, just like a classical probability
distribution does for classical systems. The expectation value of observables
cannot be measured directly, it can only be approximated by applying classical
statistical methods to the frequencies by which certain measurement outcomes
(clicks) are obtained. In this paper, we make a detailed study of the
statistical fluctuations obtained during an experiment in which a hypothesis is
tested, i.e. the hypothesis that a certain setup produces a given quantum
state. Although the classical and quantum problem are very much related to each
other, the quantum problem is much richer due to the additional optimization
over the measurement basis. Just as in the case of classical hypothesis
testing, the confidence in quantum hypothesis testing scales exponentially in
the number of copies. In this paper, we will argue 1) that the physically
relevant data of quantum experiments is only contained in the frequencies of
the measurement outcomes, and that the statistical fluctuations of the
experiment are essential, so that the correct formulation of the conclusions of
a quantum experiment should be given in terms of hypothesis tests, 2) that the
(classical) $\chi^2$ test for distinguishing two quantum states gives rise to
the quantum $\chi^2$ divergence when optimized over the measurement basis, 3)
present a max-min characterization for the optimal measurement basis for
quantum goodness of fit testing, find the quantum measurement which leads both
to the maximal Pitman and Bahadur efficiency, and determine the associated
divergence rates.


Spin dynamics near a putative antiferromagnetic quantum critical point
  in Cu substituted BaFe$_2$As$_2$ and its relation to high-temperature
  superconductivity

  We present the results of elastic and inelastic neutron scattering
measurements on non-superconducting
Ba(Fe${_{0.957}}$Cu${_{0.043}}$)${_2}$As${_2}$, a composition close to a
quantum critical point between AFM ordered and paramagnetic phases. By
comparing these results with the spin fluctuations in the low Cu composition as
well as the parent compound BaFe$_2$As$_2$ and superconducting
Ba(Fe$_{1-x}$Ni$_x$)$_2$As$_2$ compounds, we demonstrate that paramagnon-like
spin fluctuations are evident in the antiferromagnetically ordered state of
Ba(Fe$_{0.957}$Cu$_{0.043}$)$_2$As$_2$, which is distinct from the AFM-like
spin fluctuations in the superconducting compounds. Our observations suggest
that Cu substitution decouples the interaction between quasiparticles and the
spin fluctuations. We also show that the spin-spin correlation length,
${\xi(T)}$, increases rapidly as the temperature is lowered and find
${\omega/T}$ scaling behavior, the hallmark of quantum criticality, at an
antiferromagnetic quantum critical point.


Unconstrained Face Detection and Open-Set Face Recognition Challenge

  Face detection and recognition benchmarks have shifted toward more difficult
environments. The challenge presented in this paper addresses the next step in
the direction of automatic detection and identification of people from outdoor
surveillance cameras. While face detection has shown remarkable success in
images collected from the web, surveillance cameras include more diverse
occlusions, poses, weather conditions and image blur. Although face
verification or closed-set face identification have surpassed human
capabilities on some datasets, open-set identification is much more complex as
it needs to reject both unknown identities and false accepts from the face
detector. We show that unconstrained face detection can approach high detection
rates albeit with moderate false accept rates. By contrast, open-set face
recognition is currently weak and requires much more attention.


Tunable disorder and localization in the rare-earth nickelates

  The rare-earth nickelates are a rich playground for transport properties,
known to host non-Fermi liquid character, resistance saturation and
metal-insulator transitions. We report a study of transport in LaNiO3 in the
presence of tunable disorder induced by irradiation. While pristine LaNiO3
samples are metallic, highly irradiated samples show insulating behaviour at
all temperatures. Using irradiation fluence as a tuning handle, we uncover an
intermediate region hosting a metal-insulator transition. This transition falls
within the Mott-Ioffe-Regel regime wherein the mean free path is comparable to
lattice spacing. In the high temperature metallic regime, we find a transition
from non-Fermi liquid to a Fermi-liquid-like character. On the insulating side
of the metal-insulator transition, we find behaviour that is consistent with
weak localization. This is reflected in magnetoresistance that scales with the
square of the field and in resistivity. In the highly irradiated insulating
samples, we find good agreement with variable range hopping, consistent with
Anderson localization. We find qualitatively similar behaviour in thick PrNiO3
films as well. Our results demonstrate that ion irradiation can be used to
tailor transport, serving as an excellent tool to study the physics of
localization.


Temperature-gradient-induced electrokinetic flow and thermoelectricity
  of electrolyte solutions in a capillaries

  A systematic theoretical study of temperature-gradient-induced electrokinetic
flow and thermoelectric potential of electrolyte solutions in a
micro-/nanocapillary is presented. The study is based on a semi-analytical
model developed by simultaneously solving the energy equation and the
Poisson-Nernst-Planck/Navier-Stokes equations with the lubrication theory. The
semi-analytical model is shown to be mainly governed by eight parameters,
including two temperature-related parameters (temperature and its gradient),
two electrokinetic parameters ($\zeta$ potential and the ratio of capillary
radius to the Debye length $\kappa_0a$) and four physical properties of cation
and anion (i.e. Soret coefficient difference $\Delta S_T$, average Soret
coefficient $S_T$, normalized difference in diffusivities $\chi$ and intrinsic
Peclet number $\lambda$). It is found that the thermoelectric field is induced
by three effects, which are respectively due to (1) the difference in the Soret
coefficients of cation and anion; (2) the selective ion diffusion resulting
from the temperature-modified Boltzmann distribution of ions; (3) the advective
transport of ions caused by the fluid flow. The first thermoelectric effect
prevails for lower $\zeta$ potentials or large $\kappa_0a$, while the second is
dominant for higher $\zeta$ potentials with very small $\kappa_0a$. The first
two thermoelectric effects can cooperate or counteract depending on the sign of
$\zeta\Delta S_T$. Finally, the temperature-gradient-induced electrokinetic
flow is found to be a superposition of an electroosmotic flow component due to
the thermoelectric field and a thermoosmotic flow component due to the combined
effects of osmotic pressure and dielectric body force. These two flow
components may cooperate or counteract depending on values of $\zeta$ and
$\kappa_0a$.


Mass - metallicity relation and fundamental metallicity relation of
  metal-poor star-forming galaxies at $0.6<z<0.9$ from the eBOSS survey

  The stellar mass-metallicity relation ($M_* - Z$, MZR) indicates that the
metallicities of galaxies increase with increasing stellar masses. The
fundamental metallicity relation (FMR) suggests that the galaxies with higher
star formation rates (SFRs) tend to have lower metallicities for a given
stellar mass. To examine whether the MZR and FMR still hold at poorer
metallicities and higher redshifts, we compile a sample of 35 star-forming
galaxies (SFGs) at $0.6<z<0.9$ using the public spectral database ($\rm
v5\_10\_0$) of emission-line galaxies from the extended Baryon Oscillation
Spectroscopic Survey (eBOSS). These galaxies are identified for their
significant auroral $\rm [OIII]\lambda4363$ emission line ($\rm S/N \geq 3$).
With the electronic temperature metallicity calibration, we find nine SFGs are
extremely metal-poor galaxies with $\rm 12 + log(O/H) \leq 7.69 \ (1/10 \
Z_\odot)$. The metallicity of the most metal-deficient galaxy is $7.35\pm 0.09$
(about 1/20 $Z_{\odot}$). Compared with the SFGs with normal metallicities in
local and high redshift universe, our metal-poor SFGs have more than ten times
higher SFRs at a fixed stellar mass. We create a new mass -- SFR relation for
these metal-poor galaxies at $0.6<z<0.9$. Due to the higher SFRs and younger
stellar ages, our metal-poor SFGs deviate from the MZR and FMR in the local
universe toward lower metallicities, confirming the existence of FMR, as well
as the cosmic evolution of MZR and FMR with redshift.


Search for the radiative transitions $ψ(3770)\toγη_c$ and
  $γη_c(2S)$

  By using a 2.92 fb$^{-1}$ data sample taken at $\sqrt{s} = 3.773$ GeV with
the BESIII detector operating at the BEPCII collider, we search for the
radiative transitions $\psi(3770)\to\gamma\eta_c$ and $\gamma\eta_c(2S)$
through the hadronic decays $\eta_c(\eta_c(2S))\to K^0_SK^\pm\pi^\mp$. No
significant excess of signal events above background is observed. We set upper
limits at a 90% confidence level for the product branching fractions to be
$\mathcal{B}(\psi(3770)\to\gamma\eta_c)\times \mathcal{B}(\eta_c\to
K^0_SK^\pm\pi^\mp) < 1.6\times10^{-5}$ and
$\mathcal{B}(\psi(3770)\to\gamma\eta_c(2S))\times \mathcal{B}(\eta_c(2S)\to
K^0_SK^\pm\pi^\mp) < 5.6\times10^{-6}$. Combining our result with world-average
values of $\mathcal{B}(\eta_c(\eta_c(2S))\to K^0_SK^\pm\pi^\mp)$, we find the
branching fractions $\mathcal{B}(\psi(3770)\to\gamma\eta_c) < 6.8\times10^{-4}$
and $\mathcal{B}(\psi(3770)\to\gamma\eta_c(2S)) < 2.0\times10^{-3}$ at a 90%
confidence level.


