Tally NP Sets and Easy Census Functions

  We study the question of whether every P set has an easy (i.e.,
polynomial-time computable) census function. We characterize this question in
terms of unlikely collapses of language and function classes such as the
containment of #P_1 in FP, where #P_1 is the class of functions that count the
witnesses for tally NP sets. We prove that every #P_{1}^{PH} function can be
computed in FP^{#P_{1}^{#P_{1}}}. Consequently, every P set has an easy census
function if and only if every set in the polynomial hierarchy does. We show
that the assumption of #P_1 being contained in FP implies P = BPP and that PH
is contained in MOD_{k}P for each k \geq 2, which provides further evidence
that not all sets in P have an easy census function. We also relate a set's
property of having an easy census function to other well-studied properties of
sets, such as rankability and scalability (the closure of the rankable sets
under P-isomorphisms). Finally, we prove that it is no more likely that the
census function of any set in P can be approximated (more precisely, can be
n^{\alpha}-enumerated in time n^{\beta} for fixed \alpha and \beta) than that
it can be precisely computed in polynomial time.


Maximal Matching and Path Matching Counting in Polynomial Time for
  Graphs of Bounded Clique Width

  In this paper, we provide polynomial-time algorithms for different extensions
of the matching counting problem, namely maximal matchings, path matchings
(linear forest) and paths, on graph classes of bounded clique-width. For
maximal matchings, we introduce matching-cover pairs to efficiently handle
maximality in the local structure, and develop a polynomial time algorithm. For
path matchings, we develop a way to classify the path matchings in a polynomial
number of equivalent classes. Using these, we develop dynamic programing
algorithms that run in polynomial time of the graph size, but in exponential
time of the clique-width. In particular, we show that for a graph $G$ of $n$
vertices and clique-width $k$, these problems can be solved in $O(n^{f(k)})$
time where $f$ is exponential in $k$ or in $O(n^g(l))$ time where $g$ is linear
or quadratic in $l$ if an $l$-expression for $G$ is given as input.


Multimodal Content Analysis for Effective Advertisements on YouTube

  The rapid advances in e-commerce and Web 2.0 technologies have greatly
increased the impact of commercial advertisements on the general public. As a
key enabling technology, a multitude of recommender systems exists which
analyzes user features and browsing patterns to recommend appealing
advertisements to users. In this work, we seek to study the characteristics or
attributes that characterize an effective advertisement and recommend a useful
set of features to aid the designing and production processes of commercial
advertisements. We analyze the temporal patterns from multimedia content of
advertisement videos including auditory, visual and textual components, and
study their individual roles and synergies in the success of an advertisement.
The objective of this work is then to measure the effectiveness of an
advertisement, and to recommend a useful set of features to advertisement
designers to make it more successful and approachable to users. Our proposed
framework employs the signal processing technique of cross modality feature
learning where data streams from different components are employed to train
separate neural network models and are then fused together to learn a shared
representation. Subsequently, a neural network model trained on this joint
feature embedding representation is utilized as a classifier to predict
advertisement effectiveness. We validate our approach using subjective ratings
from a dedicated user study, the sentiment strength of online viewer comments,
and a viewer opinion metric of the ratio of the Likes and Views received by
each advertisement from an online platform.


