Towards Understanding Cyberbullying Behavior in a Semi-Anonymous Social
  Network

  Cyberbullying has emerged as an important and growing social problem, wherein
people use online social networks and mobile phones to bully victims with
offensive text, images, audio and video on a 247 basis. This paper studies
negative user behavior in the Ask.fm social network, a popular new site that
has led to many cases of cyberbullying, some leading to suicidal behavior.We
examine the occurrence of negative words in Ask.fms question+answer profiles
along with the social network of likes of questions+answers. We also examine
properties of users with cutting behavior in this social network.


Motif Iteration Model for Network Representation

  Social media mining has become one of the most popular research areas in Big
Data with the explosion of social networking information from Facebook,
Twitter, LinkedIn, Weibo and so on. Understanding and representing the
structure of a social network is a key in social media mining. In this paper,
we propose the Motif Iteration Model (MIM) to represent the structure of a
social network. As the name suggested, the new model is based on iteration of
basic network motifs. In order to better show the properties of the model, a
heuristic and greedy algorithm called Vertex Reordering and Arranging (VRA) is
proposed by studying the adjacency matrix of the three-vertex undirected
network motifs. The algorithm is for mapping from the adjacency matrix of a
network to a binary image, it shows a new perspective of network structure
visualization. In summary, this model provides a useful approach towards
building link between images and networks and offers a new way of representing
the structure of a social network.


Registration of Images with Outliers Using Joint Saliency Map

  Mutual information (MI) is a popular similarity measure for image
registration, whereby good registration can be achieved by maximizing the
compactness of the clusters in the joint histogram. However, MI is sensitive to
the "outlier" objects that appear in one image but not the other, and also
suffers from local and biased maxima. We propose a novel joint saliency map
(JSM) to highlight the corresponding salient structures in the two images, and
emphatically group those salient structures into the smoothed compact clusters
in the weighted joint histogram. This strategy could solve both the outlier and
the local maxima problems. Experimental results show that the JSM-MI based
algorithm is not only accurate but also robust for registration of challenging
image pairs with outliers.


Reducing Poisson noise and baseline drift in X-ray spectral images with
  bootstrap Poisson regression and robust nonparametric regression

  X-ray spectral imaging provides quantitative imaging of trace elements in
biological sample with high sensitivity. We propose a novel algorithm to
promote the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of X-ray spectral images that have low
photon counts. Firstly, we estimate the image data area that belongs to the
homogeneous parts through confidence interval testing. Then, we apply the
Poisson regression through its maximum likelihood estimation on this area to
estimate the true photon counts from the Poisson noise corrupted data. Unlike
other denoising methods based on regression analysis, we use the bootstrap
resampling method to ensure the accuracy of regression estimation. Finally, we
use a robust local nonparametric regression method to estimate the baseline and
subsequently subtract it from the X-ray spectral data to further improve the
SNR of the data. Experiments on several real samples show that the proposed
method performs better than some state-of-the-art approaches to ensure accuracy
and precision for quantitative analysis of the different trace elements in
standard reference biological sample.


Local Structure Matching Driven by Joint-Saliency-Structure Adaptive
  Kernel Regression

  For nonrigid image registration, matching the particular structures (or the
outliers) that have missing correspondence and/or local large deformations, can
be more difficult than matching the common structures with small deformations
in the two images. Most existing works depend heavily on the outlier
segmentation to remove the outlier effect in the registration. Moreover, these
works do not handle simultaneously the missing correspondences and local large
deformations. In this paper, we defined the nonrigid image registration as a
local adaptive kernel regression which locally reconstruct the moving image's
dense deformation vectors from the sparse deformation vectors in the
multi-resolution block matching. The kernel function of the kernel regression
adapts its shape and orientation to the reference image's structure to gather
more deformation vector samples of the same structure for the iterative
regression computation, whereby the moving image's local deformations could be
compliant with the reference image's local structures. To estimate the local
deformations around the outliers, we use joint saliency map that highlights the
corresponding saliency structures (called Joint Saliency Structures, JSSs) in
the two images to guide the dense deformation reconstruction by emphasizing
those JSSs' sparse deformation vectors in the kernel regression. The
experimental results demonstrate that by using local JSS adaptive kernel
regression, the proposed method achieves almost the best performance in
alignment of all challenging image pairs with outlier structures compared with
other five state-of-the-art nonrigid registration algorithms.


Texture variation adaptive image denoising with nonlocal PCA

  Image textures, as a kind of local variations, provide important information
for human visual system. Many image textures, especially the small-scale or
stochastic textures are rich in high-frequency variations, and are difficult to
be preserved. Current state-of-the-art denoising algorithms typically adopt a
nonlocal approach consisting of image patch grouping and group-wise denoising
filtering. To achieve a better image denoising while preserving the variations
in texture, we first adaptively group high correlated image patches with the
same kinds of texture elements (texels) via an adaptive clustering method. This
adaptive clustering method is applied in an
over-clustering-and-iterative-merging approach, where its noise robustness is
improved with a custom merging threshold relating to the noise level and
cluster size. For texture-preserving denoising of each cluster, considering
that the variations in texture are captured and wrapped in not only the
between-dimension energy variations but also the within-dimension variations of
PCA transform coefficients, we further propose a PCA-transform-domain variation
adaptive filtering method to preserve the local variations in textures.
Experiments on natural images show the superiority of the proposed
transform-domain variation adaptive filtering to traditional PCA-based hard or
soft threshold filtering. As a whole, the proposed denoising method achieves a
favorable texture preserving performance both quantitatively and visually,
especially for stochastic textures, which is further verified in camera raw
image denoising.


SafeVchat: Detecting Obscene Content and Misbehaving Users in Online
  Video Chat Services

  Online video chat services such as Chatroulette, Omegle, and vChatter that
randomly match pairs of users in video chat sessions are fast becoming very
popular, with over a million users per month in the case of Chatroulette. A key
problem encountered in such systems is the presence of flashers and obscene
content. This problem is especially acute given the presence of underage minors
in such systems. This paper presents SafeVchat, a novel solution to the problem
of flasher detection that employs an array of image detection algorithms. A key
contribution of the paper concerns how the results of the individual detectors
are fused together into an overall decision classifying the user as misbehaving
or not, based on Dempster-Shafer Theory. The paper introduces a novel,
motion-based skin detection method that achieves significantly higher recall
and better precision. The proposed methods have been evaluated over real world
data and image traces obtained from Chatroulette.com.


Return probability and k-step measures

  The notion of return probability -- explored most famously by George
P\'{o}lya on d-dimensional lattices -- has potential as a measure for the
analysis of networks. We present an efficient method for finding return
probability distributions for connected undirected graphs. We argue that return
probability has the same discriminatory power as existing k-step measures -- in
particular, beta centrality (with negative beta), the graph-theoretical power
index (GPI), and subgraph centrality. We compare the running time of our
algorithm to beta centrality and subgraph centrality and find that it is
significantly faster. When return probability is used to measure the same
phenomena as beta centrality, it runs in linear time -- O(n+m), where n and m
are the number of nodes and edges, respectively -- which takes much less time
than either the matrix inversion or the sequence of matrix multiplications
required for calculating the exact or approximate forms of beta centrality,
respectively. We call this form of return probability the P\'{o}lya power index
(PPI). Computing subgraph centrality requires an expensive eigendecomposition
of the adjacency matrix; return probability runs in half the time of the
eigendecomposition on a 2000-node network. These performance improvements are
important because computationally efficient measures are necessary in order to
analyze large networks.


A Comparison of Common Users across Instagram and Ask.fm to Better
  Understand Cyberbullying

  This paper examines users who are common to two popular online social
networks, Instagram and Ask.fm, that are often used for cyberbullying. An
analysis of the negativity and positivity of word usage in posts by common
users of these two social networks is performed. These results are normalized
in comparison to a sample of typical users in both networks. We also examine
the posting activity of common user profiles and consider its correlation with
negativity. Within the Ask.fm social network, which allows anonymous posts, the
relationship between anonymity and negativity is further explored.


Detection of Cyberbullying Incidents on the Instagram Social Network

  Cyberbullying is a growing problem affecting more than half of all American
teens. The main goal of this paper is to investigate fundamentally new
approaches to understand and automatically detect incidents of cyberbullying
over images in Instagram, a media-based mobile social network. To this end, we
have collected a sample Instagram data set consisting of images and their
associated comments, and designed a labeling study for cyberbullying as well as
image content using human labelers at the crowd-sourced Crowdflower Web site.
An analysis of the labeled data is then presented, including a study of
correlations between different features and cyberbullying as well as
cyberaggression. Using the labeled data, we further design and evaluate the
accuracy of a classifier to automatically detect incidents of cyberbullying.


Applying High-Resolution Visible Imagery to Satellite Melt Pond Fraction
  Retrieval: A Neural Network Approach

  During summer, melt ponds have a significant influence on Arctic sea-ice
albedo. The melt pond fraction (MPF) also has the ability to forecast the
Arctic sea-ice in a certain period. It is important to retrieve accurate melt
pond fraction (MPF) from satellite data for Arctic research. This paper
proposes a satellite MPF retrieval model based on the multi-layer neural
network, named MPF-NN. Our model uses multi-spectral satellite data as model
input and MPF information from multi-site and multi-period visible imagery as
prior knowledge for modeling. It can effectively model melt ponds evolution of
different regions and periods over the Arctic. Evaluation results show that the
MPF retrieved from MODIS data using the proposed model has an RMSE of 3.91% and
a correlation coefficient of 0.73. The seasonal distribution of MPF is also
consistent with previous results.


Results from a Practical Deployment of the MyZone Decentralized P2P
  Social Network

  This paper presents MyZone, a private online social network for relatively
small, closely-knit communities. MyZone has three important distinguishing
features. First, users keep the ownership of their data and have complete
control over maintaining their privacy. Second, MyZone is free from any
possibility of content censorship and is highly resilient to any single point
of disconnection. Finally, MyZone minimizes deployment cost by minimizing its
computation, storage and network bandwidth requirements. It incorporates both a
P2P architecture and a centralized architecture in its design ensuring high
availability, security and privacy. A prototype of MyZone was deployed over a
period of 40 days with a membership of more than one hundred users. The paper
provides a detailed evaluation of the results obtained from this deployment.


Prediction of Cyberbullying Incidents on the Instagram Social Network

  Cyberbullying is a growing problem affecting more than half of all American
teens. The main goal of this paper is to investigate fundamentally new
approaches to understand and automatically detect and predict incidents of
cyberbullying in Instagram, a media-based mobile social network. In this work,
we have collected a sample data set consisting of Instagram images and their
associated comments. We then designed a labeling study and employed human
contributors at the crowd-sourced CrowdFlower website to label these media
sessions for cyberbullying. A detailed analysis of the labeled data is then
presented, including a study of relationships between cyberbullying and a host
of features such as cyberaggression, profanity, social graph features, temporal
commenting behavior, linguistic content, and image content. Using the labeled
data, we further design and evaluate the performance of classifiers to
automatically detect and pre- dict incidents of cyberbullying and
cyberaggression.


Event Organization 101: Understanding Latent Factors of Event Popularity

  The problem of understanding people's participation in real-world events has
been a subject of active research and can offer valuable insights for human
behavior analysis and event-related recommendation/advertisement. In this work,
we study the latent factors for determining event popularity using large-scale
datasets collected from the popular Meetup.com EBSN in three major cities
around the world. We have conducted modeling analysis of four contextual
factors (spatial, group, temporal, and semantic), and also developed a
group-based social influence propagation network to model group-specific
influences on events. By combining the Contextual features And Social Influence
NetwOrk, our integrated prediction framework CASINO can capture the diverse
influential factors of event participation and can be used by event organizers
to predict/improve the popularity of their events. Evaluations demonstrate that
our CASINO framework achieves high prediction accuracy with contributions from
all the latent features we capture.


Understanding Group Event Scheduling via the OutWithFriendz Mobile
  Application

  The wide adoption of smartphones and mobile applications has brought
significant changes to not only how individuals behave in the real world, but
also how groups of users interact with each other when organizing group events.
Understanding how users make event decisions as a group and identifying the
contributing factors can offer important insights for social group studies and
more effective system and application design for group event scheduling.
  In this work, we have designed a new mobile application called
OutWithFriendz, which enables users of our mobile app to organize group events,
invite friends, suggest and vote on event time and venue. We have deployed
OutWithFriendz at both Apple App Store and Google Play, and conducted a
large-scale user study spanning over 500 users and 300 group events. Our
analysis has revealed several important observations regarding group event
planning process including the importance of user mobility, individual
preferences, host preferences, and group voting process.


Crowd-Powered Sensing and Actuation in Smart Cities: Current Issues and
  Future Directions

  With the advent of seamless connection of human, machine, and smart things,
there is an emerging trend to leverage the power of crowds (e.g., citizens,
mobile devices, and smart things) to monitor what is happening in a city,
understand how the city is evolving, and further take actions to enable better
quality of life, which is referred to as Crowd-Powered Smart City (CPSC). In
this article, we provide a literature review for CPSC and identify future
research opportunities. Specifically, we first define the concepts with typical
CPSC applications. Then, we present the main characteristics of CPSC and
further highlight the research issues. In the end, we point out existing
limitations which can inform and guide future research directions.


HyTasker: Hybrid Task Allocation in Mobile Crowd Sensing

  Task allocation is a major challenge in Mobile Crowd Sensing (MCS). While
previous task allocation approaches follow either the opportunistic or
participatory mode, this paper proposes to integrate these two complementary
modes in a two-phased hybrid framework called HyTasker. In the offline phase, a
group of workers (called opportunistic workers) are selected, and they complete
MCS tasks during their daily routines (i.e., opportunistic mode). In the online
phase, we assign another set of workers (called participatory workers) and
require them to move specifically to perform tasks that are not completed by
the opportunistic workers (i.e., participatory mode). Instead of considering
these two phases separately, HyTasker jointly optimizes them with a total
incentive budget constraint. In particular, when selecting opportunistic
workers in the offline phase of HyTasker, we propose a novel algorithm that
simultaneously considers the predicted task assignment for the participatory
workers, in which the density and mobility of participatory workers are taken
into account. Experiments on a real-world mobility dataset demonstrate that
HyTasker outperforms other methods with more completed tasks under the same
budget constraint.


Collaborative Filtering with Stability

  Collaborative filtering (CF) is a popular technique in today's recommender
systems, and matrix approximation-based CF methods have achieved great success
in both rating prediction and top-N recommendation tasks. However, real-world
user-item rating matrices are typically sparse, incomplete and noisy, which
introduce challenges to the algorithm stability of matrix approximation, i.e.,
small changes in the training data may significantly change the models. As a
result, existing matrix approximation solutions yield low generalization
performance, exhibiting high error variance on the training data, and
minimizing the training error may not guarantee error reduction on the test
data. This paper investigates the algorithm stability problem of matrix
approximation methods and how to achieve stable collaborative filtering via
stable matrix approximation. We present a new algorithm design framework, which
(1) introduces new optimization objectives to guide stable matrix approximation
algorithm design, and (2) solves the optimization problem to obtain stable
approximation solutions with good generalization performance. Experimental
results on real-world datasets demonstrate that the proposed method can achieve
better accuracy compared with state-of-the-art matrix approximation methods and
ensemble methods in both rating prediction and top-N recommendation tasks.


A Scalable Algorithm for Privacy-Preserving Item-based Top-N
  Recommendation

  Recommender systems have become an indispensable component in online services
during recent years. Effective recommendation is essential for improving the
services of various online business applications. However, serious privacy
concerns have been raised on recommender systems requiring the collection of
users' private information for recommendation. At the same time, the success of
e-commerce has generated massive amounts of information, making scalability a
key challenge in the design of recommender systems. As such, it is desirable
for recommender systems to protect users' privacy while achieving high-quality
recommendations with low-complexity computations.
  This paper proposes a scalable privacy-preserving item-based top-N
recommendation solution, which can achieve high-quality recommendations with
reduced computation complexity while ensuring that users' private information
is protected. Furthermore, the computation complexity of the proposed method
increases slowly as the number of users increases, thus providing high
scalability for privacy-preserving recommender systems. More specifically, the
proposed approach consists of two key components: (1) MinHash-based similarity
estimation and (2) client-side privacy-preserving prediction generation. Our
theoretical and experimental analysis using real-world data demonstrates the
efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Earthquake Early Warning and Beyond: Systems Challenges in
  Smartphone-based Seismic Network

  Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) systems can effectively reduce fatalities,
injuries, and damages caused by earthquakes. Current EEW systems are mostly
based on traditional seismic and geodetic networks, and exist only in a few
countries due to the high cost of installing and maintaining such systems. The
MyShake system takes a different approach and turns people's smartphones into
portable seismic sensors to detect earthquake-like motions. However, to issue
EEW messages with high accuracy and low latency in the real world, we need to
address a number of challenges related to mobile computing. In this paper, we
first summarize our experience building and deploying the MyShake system, then
focus on two key challenges for smartphone-based EEW (sensing heterogeneity and
user/system dynamics) and some preliminary exploration. We also discuss other
challenges and new research directions associated with smartphone-based seismic
network.


Broadband Photovoltaic Detectors based on an Atomically Thin
  Heterostructure

  Van der Waals junctions of two-dimensional materials with an atomically sharp
interface open up unprecedented opportunities to design and study functional
heterostructures. Semiconducting transition metal dichalcogenides have shown
tremendous potential for future applications due to their unique electronic
properties and strong light-matter interaction. However, many important
optoelectronic applications, such as broadband photodetection, are severely
hindered by their limited spectral range and reduced light absorption. Here, we
present a p-g-n heterostructure formed by sandwiching graphene with a gapless
bandstructure and wide absorption spectrum in an atomically thin p-n junction
to overcome these major limitations. We have successfully demonstrated a
MoS2-graphene-WSe2 heterostructure for broadband photodetection in the visible
to short-wavelength infrared range at room temperature that exhibits
competitive device performance, including a specific detectivity of up to 1011
Jones in the near-infrared region. Our results pave the way toward the
implementation of atomically thin heterostructures for broadband and sensitive
optoelectronic applications.


Investigating Factors Influencing the Latency of Cyberbullying Detection

  Cyberbullying in online social networks has become a critical problem,
especially among teenagers who are social networks' prolific users. As a
result, researchers have focused on identifying distinguishing features of
cyberbullying and developing techniques to automatically detect cyberbullying
incidents. While this research has resulted in developing highly accurate
classifiers, two key practical issues related to identifying cyberbullying have
largely been ignored, namely scalability of cyberbullying detection services
and timeliness of raising alerts whenever a cyberbullying incident is
suspected.
  These two issues are the subject of this paper. We propose a multi-stage
cyberbullying detection solution that drastically reduces the classification
time and the time to raise cyberbullying alerts. The proposed solution is
highly scalable, does not sacrifice accuracy for scalability, and is highly
responsive in raising alerts. The solution is comprised of three novel
components, an initial predictor, a multilevel priority scheduler, and an
incremental classification mechanism. We have implemented this solution and
utilized data obtained from the Vine online social network to demonstrate the
utility of each of these components via a detailed performance evaluation. We
show that our complete solution is significantly more scalable and responsive
than the current state-of-the-art.


MFDL: A Multicarrier Fresnel Penetration Model based Device-Free
  Localization System leveraging Commodity Wi-Fi Cards

  Device-free localization plays an important role in many ubiquitous
applications. Among the different technologies proposed, Wi-Fi based technology
using commercial devices has attracted much attention due to its low cost, ease
of deployment, and high potential for accurate localization. Existing solutions
use either fingerprints that require labor-intensive radio-map survey and
updates, or models constructed from empirical studies with dense deployment of
Wi-Fi transceivers. In this work, we explore the Fresnel Zone Theory in physics
and propose a generic Fresnel Penetration Model (FPM), which reveals the linear
relationship between specific Fresnel zones and multicarrier Fresnel phase
difference, along with the Fresnel phase offset caused by static multipath
environments. We validate FPM in both outdoor and complex indoor environments.
Furthermore, we design a multicarrier FPM based device-free localization system
(MFDL), which overcomes a number of practical challenges, particularly the
Fresnel phase difference estimation and phase offset calibration in
multipath-rich indoor environments. Extensive experimental results show that
compared with the state-of-the-art work (LiFS), our MFDL system achieves better
localization accuracy with much fewer number of Wi-Fi transceivers.
Specifically, using only three transceivers, the median localization error of
MFDL is as low as 45$cm$ in an outdoor environment of 36$m^2$, and 55$cm$ in
indoor settings of 25$m^2$. Increasing the number of transceivers to four
allows us to achieve 75$cm$ median localization error in a 72$m^2$ indoor area,
compared with the 1.1$m$ median localization error achieved by LiFS using 11
transceivers in a 70$m^2$ area.


GEVR: An Event Venue Recommendation System for Groups of Mobile Users

  In this paper, we present GEVR, the first Group Event Venue Recommendation
system that incorporates mobility via individual location traces and context
information into a "social-based" group decision model to provide venue
recommendations for groups of mobile users. Our study leverages a real-world
dataset collected using the OutWithFriendz mobile app for group event planning,
which contains 625 users and over 500 group events. We first develop a novel
"social-based" group location prediction model, which adaptively applies
different group decision strategies to groups with different social
relationship strength to aggregate each group member's location preference, to
predict where groups will meet. Evaluation results show that our prediction
model not only outperforms commonly used and state-of-the-art group decision
strategies with over 80% accuracy for predicting groups' final meeting location
clusters, but also provides promising qualities in cold-start scenarios. We
then integrate our prediction model with the Foursquare Venue Recommendation
API to construct an event venue recommendation framework for groups of mobile
users. Evaluation results show that GEVR outperforms the comparative models by
a significant margin.


The Neighborhood Function and Its Application to Identifying Large-Scale
  Structure in the Comoving Universe Frame

  In this paper a relative number density parameter, called the neighborhood
function, is introduced so that the crowded nature of the neighborhood of
individual sources can be described. With this parameter one can determine the
probability of forming a cluster by chance. A method is proposed to identify
large-scale structure in the cosmological comoving frame. The scale used to
sort out clustered sources is determined by the mean local number density, and
the sample adopted is required to have regular borders. The method is applied
to a sample drawn from the Two Degree Field survey. We find from the analysis
that the probability of forming the resulting large-scale structures by chance
is very small, and the phenomenon of clustering is dominant in the local
universe. Within a 3\sigma confidence level, a coherent cluster with a scale as
large as 357h^{-1}Mpc is identified from the sample. There exist some galaxies
which are not affected by the gravitation of clusters, and hence are suspected
to be at rest in the comoving frame of the universe. Voids are likely volumes
within which very crowded sources are not present, and they are likely formed
in embryo by fluctuations in the very early epochs of the universe. In
addition, we find that large-scale structures are coral-like and are likely
made up of smaller structures; sources with large values of the neighborhood
function are mainly distributed within the structure of prominent clusters, and
they form the framework of the large-scale structure.


"This is why we play": Characterizing Online Fan Communities of the NBA
  Teams

  Professional sports constitute an important part of people's modern life.
People spend substantial amounts of time and money supporting their favorite
players and teams, and sometimes even riot after games. However, how team
performance affects fan behavior remains understudied at a large scale. As
almost every notable professional team has its own online fan community, these
communities provide great opportunities for investigating this research
question. In this work, we provide the first large-scale characterization of
online fan communities of professional sports teams.
  Since user behavior in these online fan communities is inherently connected
to game events and team performance, we construct a unique dataset that
combines 1.5M posts and 43M comments in NBA-related communities on Reddit with
statistics that document team performance in the NBA. We analyze the impact of
team performance on fan behavior both at the game level and the season level.
First, we study how team performance in a game relates to user activity during
that game. We find that surprise plays an important role: the fans of the top
teams are more active when their teams lose and so are the fans of the bottom
teams in an unexpected win. Second, we study fan behavior over consecutive
seasons and show that strong team performance is associated with fans of low
loyalty, likely due to "bandwagon fans." Fans of the bottom teams tend to
discuss their team's future such as young talents in the roster, which may help
them stay optimistic during adversity. Our results not only contribute to
understanding the interplay between online sports communities and offline
context but also provide significant insights into sports management.


Observation of the decay $ψ(3686)$ $\rightarrow$
  $Λ\barΣ^{\pm}π^{\mp}+c.c.$

  Using a sample of $1.06\times10^{8}$ $\psi(3686)$ events collected with the
BESIII detector, we present the first observation of the decays of $\psi(3686)$
$\rightarrow$ $\Lambda\bar\Sigma^{+}\pi^{-}+c.c.$ and $\psi(3686)$
$\rightarrow$ $\Lambda\bar\Sigma^{-}\pi^{+}+c.c.$. The branching fractions are
measured to be $\mathcal{B}(\psi(3686) \rightarrow \Lambda\bar\Sigma^{+}\pi^{-}
+ c.c.)=(1.40\pm 0.03 \pm 0.13)\times10^{-4}$ and $\mathcal{B}(\psi(3686)
\rightarrow \Lambda\bar\Sigma^{-}\pi^{+}+c.c.)=(1.54\pm 0.04 \pm
0.13)\times10^{-4}$, where the first errors are statistical and the second ones
systematic.


First results on low-mass WIMP from the CDEX-1 experiment at the China
  Jinping underground Laboratory

  The China Dark matter Experiment collaboration reports the first experimental
limit on WIMP dark matter from 14.6 kg-day of data taken with a 994 g p-type
point-contact germanium detector at the China Jinping underground Laboratory
where the rock overburden is more than 2400 m. The energy threshold achieved
was 400 eVee. According to the 14.6 kg-day live data, we placed the limit of N=
1.75 * 10^{-40} cm^{2} at 90% confidence level on the spin-independent
cross-section at WIMP mass of 7 GeV before differentiating bulk signals from
the surface backgrounds.


Limits on light WIMPs from the CDEX-1 experiment with a p-type
  point-contact germanium detector at the China Jingping Underground Laboratory

  We report results of a search for light Dark Matter WIMPs with CDEX-1
experiment at the China Jinping Underground Laboratory, based on 53.9 kg-days
of data from a p-type point-contact germanium detector enclosed by a NaI(Tl)
crystal scintillator as anti-Compton detector. The event rate and spectrum
above the analysis threshold of 475 eVee are consistent with the understood
background model. Part of the allowed regions for WIMP-nucleus coherent elastic
scattering at WIMP mass of 6-20 GeV are probed and excluded. Independent of
interaction channels, this result contradicts the interpretation that the
anomalous excesses of the CoGeNT experiment are induced by Dark Matter, since
identical detector techniques are used in both experiments.


Measurement of $η^\prime\rightarrow π^+π^- e^+e^-$ and
  $η^\prime\rightarrow π^+π^-μ^+μ^-$

  Based on a sample of 225.3 million J/\psi events accumulated with the BESIII
detector at the BEPCII, the decays of \eta' to pi+pi-l+l- are studied via
J/\psi to \gamma\eta'. A clear \eta' signal is observed in the pi+pi-e+e- mass
spectrum, and the branching fraction is measured to be \BR(\eta' to pi+pi-e+e-)
= (2.11\pm0.12 (stat.)\pm0.15 (syst.))\times10^{-3}, which is in good agreement
with theoretical predictions and the previous measurement, but is determined
with much higher precision. No \eta' signal is found in the pi+ pi- mu+ mu-
mass spectrum, and the upper limit is determined to be \BR(\eta' to pi+ pi- mu+
mu-)<2.9\times10^{-5} at the 90% confidence level.


Observation of $J/ψ\rightarrow p\bar{p}a_{0}(980)$ at BESIII

  Using $2.25\times10^{8}$ $J/\psi$ events collected with the BESIII detector
at the BEPCII storage rings, we observe for the first time the process
$J/\psi\rightarrow p\bar{p}a_{0}(980)$, $a_{0}(980)\rightarrow \pi^{0}\eta$
with a significance of $6.5\sigma$ ($3.2\sigma$ including systematic
uncertainties). The product branching fraction of $J/\psi\rightarrow
p\bar{p}a_{0}(980)\rightarrow p\bar{p}\pi^{0}\eta$ is measured to be
$(6.8\pm1.2\pm1.3)\times 10^{-5}$, where the first error is statistical and the
second is systematic. This measurement provides information on the $a_{0}$
production near threshold coupling to $p\bar{p}$ and improves the understanding
of the dynamics of $J/\psi$ decays to four body processes.


Measurement of the $D\to K^-π^+$ strong phase difference in
  $ψ(3770)\to D^0\overline{D}{}^0$

  We study $D^0\overline{D}{}^0$ pairs produced in $e^+e^-$ collisions at
$\sqrt{s}=3.773$ GeV using a data sample of 2.92 fb$^{-1}$ collected with the
BESIII detector. We measure the asymmetry $\mathcal{A}^{CP}_{K\pi}$ of the
branching fractions of $D \to K^-\pi^+$ in $CP$-odd and $CP$-even eigenstates
to be $(12.7\pm1.3\pm0.7)\times10^{-2}$. $\mathcal{A}^{CP}_{K\pi}$ can be used
to extract the strong phase difference $\delta_{K\pi}$ between the doubly
Cabibbo-suppressed process $\overline{D}{}^{0}\to K^-\pi^+$ and the
Cabibbo-favored process $D^0\to K^- \pi^+$. Using world-average values of
external parameters, we obtain $\cos\delta_{K\pi} = 1.02\pm0.11\pm0.06\pm0.01$.
Here, the first and second uncertainties are statistical and systematic,
respectively, while the third uncertainty arises from the external parameters.
This is the most precise measurement of $\delta_{K\pi}$ to date.


Measurement of the branching fraction for $ψ(3686)\toωK^+ K^-$

  With $1.06\times 10^8$ $\psi(3686)$ events collected with the BESIII
detector, the branching fraction of $\psi(3686) \to \omega K^+ K^-$ is measured
to be $(1.54 \pm 0.04 \pm 0.11) \times 10^{-4}$. This is the most precise
result to date, due to the largest $\psi(3686)$ sample, improved signal
reconstruction efficiency, good simulation of the detector performance, and a
more accurate knowledge of the continuum contribution. Using the branching
fraction of $J/\psi \to \omega K^+ K^-$, the ratio $\mathcal{B}(\psi(3868) \to
K^+K^-) / \mathcal{B}(J/\psi \to K^+K^-)$ is determined to be $(18.4 \pm
3.7)\,\%$. This constitutes a significantly improved test of the $12\,\%$ rule,
with the uncertainty now dominated by the $J/\psi$ branching fraction.


Search for the radiative transitions $ψ(3770)\toγη_c$ and
  $γη_c(2S)$

  By using a 2.92 fb$^{-1}$ data sample taken at $\sqrt{s} = 3.773$ GeV with
the BESIII detector operating at the BEPCII collider, we search for the
radiative transitions $\psi(3770)\to\gamma\eta_c$ and $\gamma\eta_c(2S)$
through the hadronic decays $\eta_c(\eta_c(2S))\to K^0_SK^\pm\pi^\mp$. No
significant excess of signal events above background is observed. We set upper
limits at a 90% confidence level for the product branching fractions to be
$\mathcal{B}(\psi(3770)\to\gamma\eta_c)\times \mathcal{B}(\eta_c\to
K^0_SK^\pm\pi^\mp) < 1.6\times10^{-5}$ and
$\mathcal{B}(\psi(3770)\to\gamma\eta_c(2S))\times \mathcal{B}(\eta_c(2S)\to
K^0_SK^\pm\pi^\mp) < 5.6\times10^{-6}$. Combining our result with world-average
values of $\mathcal{B}(\eta_c(\eta_c(2S))\to K^0_SK^\pm\pi^\mp)$, we find the
branching fractions $\mathcal{B}(\psi(3770)\to\gamma\eta_c) < 6.8\times10^{-4}$
and $\mathcal{B}(\psi(3770)\to\gamma\eta_c(2S)) < 2.0\times10^{-3}$ at a 90%
confidence level.


Search for C-parity violation in $J/ ψ\to γγ$ and $ γ
  φ$

  Using $1.06\times10^8$ $\psi(3686)$ events recorded in $e^{+}e^{-}$
collisions at $\sqrt{s}=$ 3.686 GeV with the BESIII at the BEPCII collider, we
present searches for C-parity violation in $J/\psi \to \gamma\gamma$ and $
\gamma \phi$ decays via $\psi(3686) \to J/\psi \pi^+\pi^-$. No significant
signals are observed in either channel. Upper limits on the branching fractions
are set to be $\mathcal{B}(J/\psi \to \gamma\gamma) < 2.7 \times 10^{-7}$ and
$\mathcal{B}(J/\psi \to \gamma\phi) < 1.4 \times 10^{-6}$ at the 90\%
confidence level. The former is one order of magnitude more stringent than the
previous upper limit, and the latter represents the first limit on this decay
channel.


Search for the $Y(4140)$ via $e^{+} e^{-} \to γφJ/ψ$ at
  $\sqrt{s}=$ 4.23, 4.26 and 4.36 GeV

  Using data samples collected at center-of-mass energies $\sqrt{s} = 4.23$,
4.26, and 4.36 GeV with the BESIII detector operating at the BEPCII storage
ring, we search for the production of the charmoniumlike state $Y(4140)$
through a radiative transition followed by its decay to $\phi J/\psi$. No
significant signal is observed and upper limits on $\sigma[e^{+} e^{-}
\rightarrow \gamma Y(4140)] \cdot \mathcal{B}(Y(4140)\rightarrow \phi J/\psi)$
at the $90\%$ confidence level are estimated as 0.35, 0.28, and 0.33 pb at
$\sqrt{s} = 4.23$, 4.26, and 4.36 GeV, respectively.


Search for the isospin violating decay $Y(4260)\rightarrow J/ψη
  π^{0}$

  Using data samples collected at center of mass energies of $\sqrt{s}$ =
4.009, 4.226, 4.257, 4.358, 4.416 and 4.599 GeV with the BESIII detector
operating at the BEPCII storage ring, we search for the isospin violating decay
$Y(4260)\rightarrow J/\psi \eta \pi^{0}$. No signal is observed, and upper
limits on the cross section $\sigma(e^{+}e^{-}\rightarrow J/\psi \eta \pi^{0})$
at the 90\% confidence level are determined to be 3.6, 1.7, 2.4, 1.4, 0.9 and
1.9 pb, respectively.


Precision measurement of the integrated luminosity of the data taken by
  BESIII at center of mass energies between 3.810 GeV and 4.600 GeV

  From December 2011 to May 2014, about 5 $\rm fb^{-1}$ of data were taken with
the BESIII detector at center-of-mass energies between 3.810 GeV and 4.600 GeV
to study the charmoniumlike states and higher excited charmonium states. The
time integrated luminosity of the collected data sample is measured to a
precision of 1% by analyzing events produced by the large-angle Bhabha
scattering process.


Evidence for $e^+e^-\toγχ_{c1, 2}$ at center-of-mass energies
  from 4.009 to 4.360 GeV

  Using data samples collected at center-of-mass energies of $\sqrt{s}$ =
4.009, 4.230, 4.260, and 4.360 GeV with the BESIII detector operating at the
BEPCII collider, we perform a search for the process $e^+e^-\to\gamma\chi_{cJ}$
$(J = 0, 1, 2)$ and find evidence for $e^+e^-\to\gamma\chi_{c1}$ and
$e^+e^-\to\gamma\chi_{c2}$ with statistical significances of 3.0$\sigma$ and
3.4$\sigma$, respectively. The Born cross sections
$\sigma^{B}(e^+e^-\to\gamma\chi_{cJ})$, as well as their upper limits at the
90% confidence level are determined at each center-of-mass energy.


Searches for isospin-violating transitions $χ_{c0,2} \rightarrow
  π^{0} η_{c}$

  We present the first upper-limit measurement of the branching fractions of
the isospin-violating transitions $\chi_{c0,2} \rightarrow \pi^{0} \eta_{c}$.
The measurements are performed using $106\times 10^{6}$ $\psi(3686)$ events
accumulated with the BESIII detector at the BEPCII $e^{+}e^{-}$ collider at a
center-of-mass energy corresponding to the $\psi(3686)$ mass. We obtained upper
limits on the branching fractions at a 90\% confidence level of $B(\chi_{c0}
\rightarrow \pi^{0} \eta_{c}) < 1.6 \times 10^{-3}$ and $B(\chi_{c2}
\rightarrow \pi^{0} \eta_{c}) < 3.2 \times 10^{-3}$.


Measurements of Baryon Pair Decays of $χ_{cJ}$ Mesons

  Using 106 $\times 10^{6}$ $\psi^{\prime}$ decays collected with the BESIII
detector at the BEPCII, three decays of $\chi_{cJ}$ ($J=0,1,2$) with baryon
pairs ($\llb$, $\ssb$, $\SSB$) in the final state have been studied. The
branching fractions are measured to be
$\cal{B}$$(\chi_{c0,1,2}\rightarrow\Lambda\bar\Lambda) =(33.3 \pm 2.0 \pm
2.6)\times 10^{-5}$, $(12.2 \pm 1.1 \pm 1.1)\times 10^{-5}$, $(20.8 \pm 1.6 \pm
2.3)\times 10^{-5}$;
$\cal{B}$$(\chi_{c0,1,2}\rightarrow\Sigma^{0}\bar\Sigma^{0})$ = $(47.8 \pm 3.4
\pm 3.9)\times 10^{-5}$, $(3.8 \pm 1.0 \pm 0.5)\times 10^{-5}$, $(4.0 \pm 1.1
\pm 0.5) \times 10^{-5}$; and
$\cal{B}$$(\chi_{c0,1,2}\rightarrow\Sigma^{+}\bar\Sigma^{-})$ = $(45.4 \pm 4.2
\pm 3.0)\times 10^{-5}$, $(5.4 \pm 1.5 \pm 0.5)\times 10^{-5}$, $(4.9 \pm 1.9
\pm 0.7)\times 10^{-5}$, where the first error is statistical and the second is
systematic. Upper limits on the branching fractions for the decays of
$\chi_{c1,2}\rightarrow\Sigma^{0}\bar\Sigma^{0}$, $\Sigma^{+}\bar\Sigma^{-}$,
are estimated to be $\cal{B}$$(\chi_{c1}\rightarrow\Sigma^{0}\bar\Sigma^{0}) <
6.2\times 10^{-5}$, $\cal{B}$$(\chi_{c2}\rightarrow\Sigma^{0}\bar\Sigma^{0}) <
6.5\times 10^{-5}$, $\cal{B}$$(\chi_{c1}\rightarrow\Sigma^{+}\bar\Sigma^{-}) <
8.7\times 10^{-5}$ and $\cal{B}$$(\chi_{c2}\rightarrow\Sigma^{+}\bar\Sigma^{-})
< 8.8\times 10^{-5}$ at the 90% confidence level.


Search for $η$ and $η^\prime\to π^+ e^- \barν_e +c.c.$
  decays in $\jpsi \to φη$ and $φη^\prime$

  Using a sample of 225.3 million $\jpsi$ events collected with the BESIII
detector at the BEPCII $e^+e^-$ collider in 2009, searches for the decays of
$\eta$ and $\eta^\prime\to\pi^+ e^- \bar{\nu}_e +c.c.$ in $\jpsi \to \phi \eta$
and $\phi\eta^\prime$ are performed. The $\phi$ signals, which are
reconstructed in $K^+K^-$ final states, are used to tag $\eta$ and
$\eta^\prime$ semileptonic decays. No signals are observed for either $\eta$ or
$\eta^\prime$, and upper limits at the 90% confidence level are determined to
be $7.3\times 10^{-4}$ and $5.0\times 10^{-4}$ for the ratios $\frac{{\mathcal
B}(\eta\to \pi^+ e^- \bar{\nu}_e +c.c.)}{{\mathcal B}(\eta \to \pip\pim\piz)}$
and $\frac{{\mathcal B}(\eta^\prime\to \pi^+ e^-\bar{\nu}_e +c.c.)}{{\mathcal
B}(\eta^\prime \to \pip\pim\eta)}$, respectively. These are the first upper
limit values determined for $\eta$ and $\eta^\prime$ semileptonic weak decays.


Study of the near-threshold $ωφ$ mass enhancement in doubly OZI
  suppressed $J/ψ\to γωφ$ decays

  A 2.25$\times10^8$ $\jpsi$ event sample accumulated with the BESIII detector
is used to study the doubly OZI suppressed decay modes $\jpsi\to\gamma\of$,
$\omega\to\ppp$, $\phi\to\kk$. A strong deviation ($>$ 30$\sigma$) from
three-body $\jpsi\to\gamma\omega\phi$ phase space is observed near the
$\omega\phi$ mass threshold that is consistent with a previous observation
reported by the BESII experiment. A partial wave analysis with a tensor
covariant amplitude that assumes that the enhancement is due to the presence of
a resonance, the X(1810), is performed, and confirms that the spin-parity of
the X(1810) is $0^{++}$. The mass and width of the X(1810) are determined to be
$M=1795\pm7$(stat)$^{+13}_{-5}$(syst)$\pm$19(mod) MeV/$c^2$ and
$\Gamma=95\pm10$(stat)$^{+21}_{-34}$(syst)$\pm$75(mod) MeV/$c^2$, respectively,
and the product branching fraction is measured to be ${\cal B}(\jpsi\to\gamma
X(1810))\times{\cal
B}(X(1810)\to\of)=(2.00\pm0.08$(stat)$^{+0.45}_{-1.00}$(syst)$\pm$1.30(mod))$\times10^{-4}$.
%where the first error is the statistical error and the second the systematical
error. These results are consistent within errors with those of the BESII
experiment.


Study of $J/ψ\rightarrow ωp \bar{p}$ at BESIII

  The decay $J/\psi \rightarrow \omega p \bar{p}$ has been studied, using
$225.3\times 10^{6}$ $J/\psi$ events accumulated at BESIII. No significant
enhancement near the $p\bar{p}$ invariant-mass threshold (denoted as
$X(p\bar{p})$) is observed. The upper limit of the branching fraction
$\mathcal{B}(J/\psi \rightarrow \omega X(p\bar{p}) \rightarrow \omega p
\bar{p})$ is determined to be $3.9\times10^{-6}$ at the 95% confidence level.
The branching fraction of $J/\psi \rightarrow \omega p \bar{p}$ is measured to
be $\mathcal{B}(J/\psi \rightarrow \omega p \bar{p}) =(9.0 \pm 0.2\
(\text{stat.})\pm 0.9\ (\text{syst.})) \times 10^{-4}$.


Observation of a charged charmoniumlike structure in e+e- to pi+pi-J/psi
  at \sqrt{s}=4.26 GeV

  We study the process e+e- to pi+pi-J/psi at a center-of-mass energy of 4.260
GeV using a 525 pb^{-1} data sample collected with the BESIII detector
operating at the Beijing Electron Positron Collider. The Born cross section is
measured to be (62.9\pm 1.9\pm 3.7) pb, consistent with the production of the
Y(4260). We observe a structure at around 3.9 GeV/c^2 in the \pi^\pm J/psi mass
spectrum, which we refer to as the Z_c(3900). If interpreted as a new particle,
it is unusual in that it carries an electric charge and couples to charmonium.
A fit to the \pi^\pm J/psi invariant mass spectrum, neglecting interference,
results in a mass of (3899.0\pm 3.6\pm 4.9) MeV/c^2 and a width of (46\pm 10\pm
20) MeV. Its production ratio is measured to be R=\frac{\sigma(e+e- to \pi^\pm
Z_c(3900)^\mp to pi+pi-J/psi))} {\sigma(e+e- to pi+pi-J/psi)}=(21.5\pm 3.3\pm
7.5)%. In all measurements the first errors are statistical and the second are
systematic.


Partial wave analysis of $ψ(2S) \to p \bar{p}η$

  Using a sample of $1.06 \times 10^{8}$ $\psi(2S)$ events collected with the
BESIII detector at BEPCII, the decay $\psi(2S) \to p \bar{p}\eta$ is studied. A
partial wave analysis determines that the intermediate state N(1535) with a
mass of $1524\pm5^{+10}_{-4}$ MeV/$c^2$ and a width of $130^{+27+57}_{-24-10}$
MeV/$c^2$ is dominant in the decay; the product branching fraction is
determined to be $B(\psi(2S) \to N(1535)\bar{p})\times B(N(1535)\to p\eta)+c.c.
= (5.2\pm0.3^{+3.2}_{-1.2})\times 10^{-5}$. Furthermore, the branching fraction
of $\psi(2S) \to \eta p \bar{p}$ is measured to be $(6.4\pm0.2\pm0.6)\times
10^{-5}$.


Search for the Lepton Flavor Violation Process $J/ψ\to eμ$ at
  BESIII

  We search for the lepton-flavor-violating decay of the $J/\psi$ into an
electron and a muon using $(225.3\pm2.8)\times 10^{6}$ $J/\psi$ events
collected with the BESIII detector at the BEPCII collider. Four candidate
events are found in the signal region, consistent with background expectations.
An upper limit on the branching fraction of $\mathcal{B}(J/\psi \to e\mu)< 1.5
\times 10^{-7}$ (90% C.L.) is obtained.


Observation of a charged charmoniumlike structure in $e^+e^- \to (D^{*}
  \bar{D}^{*})^{\pm} π^\mp$ at $\sqrt{s}=4.26$GeV

  We study the process $e^+e^- \to (D^{*} \bar{D}^{*})^{\pm} \pi^\mp$ at a
center-of-mass energy of 4.26GeV using a 827pb$^{-1}$ data sample obtained with
the BESIII detector at the Beijing Electron Positron Collider. Based on a
partial reconstruction technique, the Born cross section is measured to be
$(137\pm9\pm15)$pb. We observe a structure near the $(D^{*} \bar{D}^{*})^{\pm}$
threshold in the $\pi^\mp$ recoil mass spectrum, which we denote as the
$Z^{\pm}_c(4025)$. The measured mass and width of the structure are
$(4026.3\pm2.6\pm3.7)$MeV/c$^2$ and $(24.8\pm5.6\pm7.7)$MeV, respectively. Its
production ratio $\frac{\sigma(e^+e^-\to Z^{\pm}_c(4025)\pi^\mp \to (D^{*}
\bar{D}^{*})^{\pm} \pi^\mp)}{\sigma(e^+e^-\to (D^{*} \bar{D}^{*})^{\pm}
\pi^\mp)}$ is determined to be $0.65\pm0.09\pm0.06$. The first uncertainties
are statistical and the second are systematic.


Observation of $e^{+} e^{-} \to γX(3872)$ at BESIII

  With data samples collected with the BESIII detector operating at the BEPCII
storage ring at center-of-mass energies from 4.009 to 4.420 GeV, the process
$e^{+} e^{-} \to \gamma X(3872)$ is observed for the first time with a
statistical significance of $6.3\sigma$. The measured mass of the $X(3872)$ is
($3871.9\pm 0.7_{\rm stat.}\pm 0.2_{\rm sys.}$) MeV/$c^2$, in agreement with
previous measurements. Measurements of the product of the cross section
$\sigma[e^{+} e^{-} \to \gamma X(3872)]$ and the branching fraction
$\mathcal{B}[X(3872) \to \pi^{+} \pi^{-} J/\psi]$ at center-of-mass energies
4.009, 4.229, 4.260, and 4.360 GeV are reported. Our measurements are
consistent with expectations for the radiative transition process $Y(4260) \to
\gamma X(3872)$.


Search for the $η_c(2S)/h_c\to p\bar{p}$ decays and measurements of
  the $χ_{cJ}\to p\bar{p}$ branching fractions

  Using a sample of $1.06\times10^{8}~\psi(3686)$ events collected with the
BESIII detector at BEPCII, the decays $\eta_{c}(2S)\to p\bar{p}$ and $h_{c}\to
p\bar{p}$ are searched for, where $\eta_c(2S)$ and $h_c$ are reconstructed in
the decay chains $\psi(3686)\to\gamma\eta_{c}(2S)$, $\eta_{c}(2S)\to p\bar{p}$
and $\psi(3686)\to\pi^{0}h_{c}$, $h_{c}\to p\bar{p}$, respectively. No
significant signals are observed. The upper limits of the product branching
fractions are determined to be
$\mathcal{B}(\psi(3686)\to\gamma\eta_c(2S))\times\mathcal{B}(\eta_{c}(2S)\to
p\bar{p})<1.4\times10^{-6}$ and
$\mathcal{B}(\psi(3686)\to\pi^0h_c)\times\mathcal{B}(h_{c}\to
p\bar{p})<1.3\times10^{-7}$ at the 90% C.L.. The branching fractions for
$\chi_{cJ}\to p\bar{p}$ $(J=0,~1,~2)$ are also measured to be
$(24.5\pm0.8\pm1.3,~8.6\pm0.5\pm0.5,~8.4\pm0.5\pm0.5)\times10^{-5}$, which are
the world's most precise measurements.


