Modeling Actuation Constraints for IoT Applications

  Internet of Things (IoT) promises to bring ease of monitoring, better
efficiency and innovative services across many domains with connected devices
around us. With information from critical parts of infrastructure and powerful
cloud-based data analytics, many applications can be developed to gain insights
about IoT systems as well as transform their capabilities. Actuation
applications form an essential part of these IoT systems, as they enable
automation as well as fast low-level decision making. However, modern IoT
systems are designed for data acquisition, and actuation applications are
implemented in an ad-hoc manner. We identify modeling constraints in a
systematic manner as indispensable to support actuation applications because
constraints encompass high-level policies dictated by laws of physics, legal
policies, user preferences. We explore data models for constraints inIoT system
with the example of a home heating system and illustrate the challenges in
enforcing these constraints in theIoT system architecture.


Control Plane Compression

  We develop an algorithm capable of compressing large networks into a smaller
ones with similar control plane behavior: For every stable routing solution in
the large, original network, there exists a corresponding solution in the
compressed network, and vice versa. Our compression algorithm preserves a wide
variety of network properties including reachability, loop freedom, and path
length. Consequently, operators may speed up network analysis, based on
simulation, emulation, or verification, by analyzing only the compressed
network. Our approach is based on a new theory of control plane equivalence. We
implement these ideas in a tool called Bonsai and apply it to real and
synthetic networks. Bonsai can shrink real networks by over a factor of 5 and
speed up analysis by several orders of magnitude.


