Higher order two-mode and multi-mode entanglement in Raman processes

  The existence of higher order entanglement in the stimulated and spontaneous
Raman processes is established using the perturbative solutions of the
Heisenberg equations of motion for various field modes that are obtained using
the Sen-Mandal technique and a fully quantum mechanical Hamiltonian that
describes the stimulated and spontaneous Raman processes. Specifically, the
perturbative Sen-Mandal solutions are exploited here to show the signature of
the higher order two-mode and multi-mode entanglement. In some special cases,
we have also observed higher order entanglement in the partially spontaneous
Raman processes. Further, it is shown that the depth of the nonclassicality
indicators (parameters) can be manipulated by the specific choice of coupling
constants, and it is observed that the depth of nonclassicality parameters
increases with the order.


On local structures of cubicity 2 graphs

  A 2-stab unit interval graph (2SUIG) is an axes-parallel unit square
intersection graph where the unit squares intersect either of the two fixed
lines parallel to the $X$-axis, distance $1 + \epsilon$ ($0 < \epsilon < 1$)
apart. This family of graphs allow us to study local structures of unit square
intersection graphs, that is, graphs with cubicity 2. The complexity of
determining whether a tree has cubicity 2 is unknown while the graph
recognition problem for unit square intersection graph is known to be NP-hard.
We present a polynomial time algorithm for recognizing trees that admit a 2SUIG
representation.


Oriented Bipartite Graphs and the Goldbach Graph

  In this paper we study oriented bipartite graphs. In particular, several
characterizations of bitournaments are obtained. We introduce the concept of
odd-even graphs and show that any (oriented) bipartite graph can be represented
by some (oriented) odd-even graph. We show that the famous Goldbach's
conjecture is equivalent to the connectedness of certain odd-even graphs.


Chromatic number of signed graphs with bounded maximum degree

  A signed graph $ (G, \Sigma)$ is a graph positive and negative ($\Sigma $
denotes the set of negative edges). To re-sign a vertex $v$ of a signed graph $
(G, \Sigma)$ is to switch the signs of the edges incident to $v$. If one can
obtain $ (G, \Sigma')$ by re-signing some vertices of $ (G, \Sigma)$, then
  $ (G, \Sigma) \equiv (G, \Sigma')$.
  A signed graphs $ (G, \Sigma )$ admits an homomorphism to $ (H, \Lambda )$ if
there is a sign preserving vertex mapping from $(G,\Sigma')$ to $(H, \Lambda)$
for some $ (G, \Sigma) \equiv (G, \Sigma')$.
  The signed chromatic number $\chi_{s}( (G, \Sigma))$ of the signed graph $(G,
\Sigma)$ is the minimum order (number of vertices) of a signed graph $(H,
\Lambda)$ such that $ (G, \Sigma)$ admits a homomorphism to $(H, \Lambda)$. For
a family $ \mathcal{F}$ of signed graphs $\chi_{s}(\mathcal{F}) =
\text{max}_{(G,\Sigma) \in \mathcal{F}} \chi_{s}( (G, \Sigma))$.
  We prove $2^{\Delta/2-1} \leq \chi_s(\mathcal{G}_{\Delta}) \leq (\Delta-1)^2.
2^{(\Delta-1)} +2$ for all $\Delta \geq 3$ where $\mathcal{G}_{\Delta}$ is the
family of connected signed graphs with maximum degree $\Delta$. \end{abstract}


Rotating Attractors

  We prove that, in a general higher derivative theory of gravity coupled to
abelian gauge fields and neutral scalar fields, the entropy and the near
horizon background of a rotating extremal black hole is obtained by extremizing
an entropy function which depends only on the parameters labeling the near
horizon background and the electric and magnetic charges and angular momentum
carried by the black hole. If the entropy function has a unique extremum then
this extremum must be independent of the asymptotic values of the moduli scalar
fields and the solution exhibits attractor behaviour. If the entropy function
has flat directions then the near horizon background is not uniquely determined
by the extremization equations and could depend on the asymptotic data on the
moduli fields, but the value of the entropy is still independent of this
asymptotic data. We illustrate these results in the context of two derivative
theories of gravity in several examples. These include Kerr black hole,
Kerr-Newman black hole, black holes in Kaluza-Klein theory, and black holes in
toroidally compactified heterotic string theory.


On chromatic number of colored mixed graphs

  An $(m,n)$-colored mixed graph $G$ is a graph with its arcs having one of the
$m$ different colors and edges having one of the $n$ different colors. A
homomorphism $f$ of an $(m,n)$-colored mixed graph $G$ to an $(m,n)$-colored
mixed graph $H$ is a vertex mapping such that if $uv$ is an arc (edge) of color
$c$ in $G$, then $f(u)f(v)$ is an arc (edge) of color $c$ in $H$. The
\textit{$(m,n)$-colored mixed chromatic number} $\chi_{(m,n)}(G)$ of an
$(m,n)$-colored mixed graph $G$ is the order (number of vertices) of the
smallest homomorphic image of $G$. This notion was introduced by
Ne\v{s}et\v{r}il and Raspaud (2000, J. Combin. Theory, Ser. B 80, 147--155).
They showed that $\chi_{(m,n)}(G) \leq k(2m+n)^{k-1}$ where $G$ is a
$k$-acyclic colorable graph. We proved the tightness of this bound. We also
showed that the acyclic chromatic number of a graph is bounded by $k^2 + k^{2 +
\lceil log_{(2m+n)} log_{(2m+n)} k \rceil}$ if its $(m,n)$-colored mixed
chromatic number is at most $k$.
  Furthermore, using probabilistic method, we showed that for graphs with
maximum degree $\Delta$ its $(m,n)$-colored mixed chromatic number is at most
$2(\Delta-1)^{2m+n} (2m+n)^{\Delta-1}$. In particular, the last result directly
improves the upper bound $2\Delta^2 2^{\Delta}$ of oriented chromatic number of
graphs with maximum degree $\Delta$, obtained by Kostochka, Sopena and Zhu
(1997, J. Graph Theory 24, 331--340) to $2(\Delta-1)^2 2^{\Delta -1}$. We also
show that there exists a graph with maximum degree $\Delta$ and $(m,n)$-colored
mixed chromatic number at least $(2m+n)^{\Delta / 2}$.


On relative clique number of colored mixed graphs

  An $(m, n)$-colored mixed graph is a graph having arcs of $m$ different
colors and edges of $n$ different colors. A graph homomorphism of an $(m,
n$)-colored mixed graph $G$ to an $(m, n)$-colored mixed graph $H$ is a vertex
mapping such that if $uv$ is an arc (edge) of color $c$ in $G$, then $f(u)f(v)$
is also an arc (edge) of color $c$. The ($m, n)$-colored mixed chromatic number
of an $(m, n)$-colored mixed graph $G$, introduced by Ne\v{s}et\v{r}il and
Raspaud [J. Combin. Theory Ser. B 2000] is the order (number of vertices) of
the smallest homomorphic image of $G$. Later Bensmail, Duffy and Sen [Graphs
Combin. 2017] introduced another parameter related to the $(m, n)$-colored
mixed chromatic number, namely, the $(m, n)$-relative clique number as the
maximum cardinality of a vertex subset which, pairwise, must have distinct
images with respect to any colored homomorphism.
  In this article, we study the $(m, n$)-relative clique number for the family
of subcubic graphs, graphs with maximum degree $\Delta$, planar graphs and
triangle-free planar graphs and provide new improved bounds in each of the
cases. In particular, for subcubic graphs we provide exact value of the
parameter.


Black Hole Microstates and Attractor Without Supersymmetry

  Due to the attractor mechanism, the entropy of an extremal black hole does
not vary continuously as we vary the asymptotic values of various moduli
fields. Using this fact we argue that the entropy of an extremal black hole in
string theory, calculated for a range of values of the asymptotic moduli for
which the microscopic theory is strongly coupled, should match the statistical
entropy of the same system calculated for a range of values of the asymptotic
moduli for which the microscopic theory is weakly coupled. This argument does
not rely on supersymmetry and applies equally well to nonsupersymmetric
extremal black holes. We discuss several examples which support this argument
and also several caveats which could invalidate this argument.


Intermodal entanglement in Raman processes

  The operator solution of a completely quantum mechanical Hamiltonian of the
Raman processes is used here to investigate the possibility of obtaining
intermodal entanglement between different modes involved in the Raman processes
(e.g. pump mode, Stokes mode, vibration (phonon) mode and anti-Stokes mode).
Intermodal entanglement is reported between a) pump mode and anti-Stokes mode,
b) pump mode and vibration (phonon) mode c) Stokes mode and vibration phonon
mode, d) Stokes mode and anti-stokes mode in the stimulated Raman processes for
the variation of the phase angle of complex eigenvalue $\alpha_{1}$ of pump
mode $a$. Some incidents of intermodal entanglement in the spontaneous and the
partially spontaneous Raman processes are also reported. Further it is shown
that the specific choice of coupling constants may produce genuine entanglement
among Stokes mode, anti-Stokes mode and vibration-phonon mode. It is also shown
that the two mode entanglement not identified by Duan's criterion may be
identified by Hillery-Zubairy criteria. It is further shown that intermodal
entanglement, intermodal antibunching and intermodal squeezing are independent
phenomena.


Nonclassicality in two-mode BEC

  An analytic operator solution of a generalized quantum mechanical Hamiltonian
of two-mode Bose Einstein condensates (BECs) is obtained and the same is used
to investigate the nonclassical properties of the modes present in the system.
Nonclassical characters are observed by means of single mode and intermodal
squeezing, single mode and intermodal sub-Poissonian boson statistics and
intermodal entanglement. In addition to the traditionally studied lower order
nonclassical properties, signatures of higher order nonclassical characters of
two-mode BEC systems are also obtained by investigating the possibility of
higher order antibunching and higher order entanglement. The mutual relation
among the observed nonclassicalities and their evolution (variation) with
rescaled time and the ratio of the single boson tunneling amplitude
($\varepsilon$) and the coupling constant for the intra-modal interaction
($\kappa$) are also reported.


On a special class of boxicity 2 graphs

  We define and study a class of graphs, called 2-stab interval graphs (2SIG),
with boxicity 2 which properly contains the class of interval graphs. A 2SIG is
an axes-parallel rectangle intersection graph where the rectangles have unit
height (that is, length of the side parallel to $Y$-axis) and intersects either
of the two fixed lines, parallel to the $X$-axis, distance $1+\epsilon$ ($0 <
\epsilon < 1$) apart. Intuitively, 2SIG is a graph obtained by putting some
edges between two interval graphs in a particular rule. It turns out that for
these kind of graphs, the chromatic number of any of its induced subgraphs is
bounded by twice of its (induced subgraph) clique number. This shows that the
graph, even though not perfect, is not very far from it. Then we prove similar
results for some subclasses of 2SIG and provide efficient algorithm for finding
their clique number. We provide a matrix characterization for a subclass of
2SIG graph.


Higher-order nonclassical properties of atom-molecule Bose-Einstein
  Condensate

  The transient quantum statistical properties of the atoms and molecules in an
atom-molecule BEC system are investigated by obtaining a third-order
perturbative solution of the Heisenberg's equations of motion corresponding to
the Hamiltonian of an atom-molecule BEC system where two atoms can collide to
form a molecule. Time dependent quantities like two boson correlation,
entanglement, squeezing, antibunching, etc., are computed and their properties
are compared. It is established that atom-molecule BEC system is highly
nonclassical as lower-order and higher-order squeezing and antibunching in pure
(atomic and molecular) modes, squeezing and antibunching in compound mode and
lower-order and higher-order entanglement in compound mode can be observed in
the atom-molecule BEC system. Exact numerical results are also reported and
analytic results obtained using the perturbative technique are shown to
coincide with the exact numerical results.


A Strongly Coupled Anisotropic Fluid From Dilaton Driven Holography

  We consider a system consisting of $5$ dimensional gravity with a negative
cosmological constant coupled to a massless scalar, the dilaton. We construct a
black brane solution which arises when the dilaton satisfies linearly varying
boundary conditions in the asymptotically $AdS_5$ region. The geometry of this
black brane breaks rotational symmetry while preserving translational
invariance and corresponds to an anisotropic phase of the system. Close to
extremality, where the anisotropy is big compared to the temperature, some
components of the viscosity tensor become parametrically small compared to the
entropy density. We study the quasi normal modes in considerable detail and
find no instability close to extremality. We also obtain the equations for
fluid mechanics for an anisotropic driven system in general, working upto first
order in the derivative expansion for the stress tensor, and identify
additional transport coefficients which appear in the constitutive relation.
For the fluid of interest we find that the parametrically small viscosity can
result in a very small force of friction, when the fluid is enclosed between
appropriately oriented parallel plates moving with a relative velocity.


Hierarchical Heuristic Learning towards Effcient Norm Emergence

  Social norms serve as an important mechanism to regulate the behaviors of
agents and to facilitate coordination among them in multiagent systems. One
important research question is how a norm can rapidly emerge through repeated
local interaction within an agent society under different environments when
their coordination space becomes large. To address this problem, we propose a
Hierarchically Heuristic Learning Strategy (HHLS) under the hierarchical social
learning framework, in which subordinate agents report their information to
their supervisors, while supervisors can generate instructions (rules and
suggestions) based on the information collected from their subordinates.
Subordinate agents heuristically update their strategies based on both their
own experience and the instructions from their supervisors. Extensive
experiment evaluations show that HHLS can support the emergence of desirable
social norms more efficiently and is applicable in a much wider range of
multiagent interaction scenarios compared with previous work. We also
investigate the effectiveness of HHLS by separating out the different
components of the HHLS and evaluating the relative importance of those
components. The influence of key related factors (e.g., hierarchical factors,
non-hierarchical factors, fixed-strategy agents) are investigated as well.


