On the scaling of Polar Codes: II. The behavior of un-polarized channels

  We provide upper and lower bounds on the escape rate of the Bhattacharyya
process corresponding to polar codes and transmission over the the binary
erasure channel. More precisely, we bound the exponent of the number of
sub-channels whose Bhattacharyya constant falls in a fixed interval $[a,b]$.
Mathematically this can be stated as bounding the limit $\lim_{n \to \infty}
\frac{1}{n} \ln \mathbb{P}(Z_n \in [a,b])$, where $Z_n$ is the Bhattacharyya
process. The quantity $\mathbb{P}(Z_n \in [a,b])$ represents the fraction of
sub-channels that are still un-polarized at time $n$.


Coupled Graphical Models and Their Thresholds

  The excellent performance of convolutional low-density parity-check codes is
the result of the spatial coupling of individual underlying codes across a
window of growing size, but much smaller than the length of the individual
codes. Remarkably, the belief-propagation threshold of the coupled ensemble is
boosted to the maximum-a-posteriori one of the individual system. We
investigate the generality of this phenomenon beyond coding theory: we couple
general graphical models into a one-dimensional chain of large individual
systems. For the later we take the Curie-Weiss, random field Curie-Weiss,
$K$-satisfiability, and $Q$-coloring models. We always find, based on
analytical as well as numerical calculations, that the message passing
thresholds of the coupled systems come very close to the static ones of the
individual models. The remarkable properties of convolutional low-density
parity-check codes are a manifestation of this very general phenomenon.


Universal Bounds on the Scaling Behavior of Polar Codes

  We consider the problem of determining the trade-off between the rate and the
block-length of polar codes for a given block error probability when we use the
successive cancellation decoder. We take the sum of the Bhattacharyya
parameters as a proxy for the block error probability, and show that there
exists a universal parameter $\mu$ such that for any binary memoryless
symmetric channel $W$ with capacity $I(W)$, reliable communication requires
rates that satisfy $R< I(W)-\alpha N^{-\frac{1}{\mu}}$, where $\alpha$ is a
positive constant and $N$ is the block-length. We provide lower bounds on
$\mu$, namely $\mu \geq 3.553$, and we conjecture that indeed $\mu=3.627$, the
parameter for the binary erasure channel.


On the Construction of Polar Codes

  We consider the problem of efficiently constructing polar codes over binary
memoryless symmetric (BMS) channels. The complexity of designing polar codes
via an exact evaluation of the polarized channels to find which ones are "good"
appears to be exponential in the block length. In \cite{TV11}, Tal and Vardy
show that if instead the evaluation if performed approximately, the
construction has only linear complexity. In this paper, we follow this approach
and present a framework where the algorithms of \cite{TV11} and new related
algorithms can be analyzed for complexity and accuracy. We provide numerical
and analytical results on the efficiency of such algorithms, in particular we
show that one can find all the "good" channels (except a vanishing fraction)
with almost linear complexity in block-length (except a polylogarithmic
factor).


Polar Codes: Robustness of the Successive Cancellation Decoder with
  Respect to Quantization

  Polar codes provably achieve the capacity of a wide array of channels under
successive decoding. This assumes infinite precision arithmetic. Given the
successive nature of the decoding algorithm, one might worry about the
sensitivity of the performance to the precision of the computation.
  We show that even very coarsely quantized decoding algorithms lead to
excellent performance. More concretely, we show that under successive decoding
with an alphabet of cardinality only three, the decoder still has a threshold
and this threshold is a sizable fraction of capacity. More generally, we show
that if we are willing to transmit at a rate $\delta$ below capacity, then we
need only $c \log(1/\delta)$ bits of precision, where $c$ is a universal
constant.


The Space of Solutions of Coupled XORSAT Formulae

  The XOR-satisfiability (XORSAT) problem deals with a system of $n$ Boolean
variables and $m$ clauses. Each clause is a linear Boolean equation (XOR) of a
subset of the variables. A $K$-clause is a clause involving $K$ distinct
variables. In the random $K$-XORSAT problem a formula is created by choosing
$m$ $K$-clauses uniformly at random from the set of all possible clauses on $n$
variables. The set of solutions of a random formula exhibits various
geometrical transitions as the ratio $\frac{m}{n}$ varies.
  We consider a {\em coupled} $K$-XORSAT ensemble, consisting of a chain of
random XORSAT models that are spatially coupled across a finite window along
the chain direction. We observe that the threshold saturation phenomenon takes
place for this ensemble and we characterize various properties of the space of
solutions of such coupled formulae.


Rate-Dependent Analysis of the Asymptotic Behavior of Channel
  Polarization

  For a binary-input memoryless symmetric channel $W$, we consider the
asymptotic behavior of the polarization process in the large block-length
regime when transmission takes place over $W$. In particular, we study the
asymptotics of the cumulative distribution $\mathbb{P}(Z_n \leq z)$, where
$\{Z_n\}$ is the Bhattacharyya process defined from $W$, and its dependence on
the rate of transmission. On the basis of this result, we characterize the
asymptotic behavior, as well as its dependence on the rate, of the block error
probability of polar codes using the successive cancellation decoder. This
refines the original bounds by Ar{\i}kan and Telatar. Our results apply to
general polar codes based on $\ell \times \ell$ kernel matrices.
  We also provide lower bounds on the block error probability of polar codes
using the MAP decoder. The MAP lower bound and the successive cancellation
upper bound coincide when $\ell=2$, but there is a gap for $\ell>2$.


Threshold Saturation in Spatially Coupled Constraint Satisfaction
  Problems

  We consider chains of random constraint satisfaction models that are
spatially coupled across a finite window along the chain direction. We
investigate their phase diagram at zero temperature using the survey
propagation formalism and the interpolation method. We prove that the SAT-UNSAT
phase transition threshold of an infinite chain is identical to the one of the
individual standard model, and is therefore not affected by spatial coupling.
We compute the survey propagation complexity using population dynamics as well
as large degree approximations, and determine the survey propagation threshold.
We find that a clustering phase survives coupling. However, as one increases
the range of the coupling window, the survey propagation threshold increases
and saturates towards the phase transition threshold. We also briefly discuss
other aspects of the problem. Namely, the condensation threshold is not
affected by coupling, but the dynamic threshold displays saturation towards the
condensation one. All these features may provide a new avenue for obtaining
better provable algorithmic lower bounds on phase transition thresholds of the
individual standard model.


On the scaling of Polar codes: I. The behavior of polarized channels

  We consider the asymptotic behavior of the polarization process for polar
codes when the blocklength tends to infinity. In particular, we study the
problem of asymptotic analysis of the cumulative distribution $\mathbb{P}(Z_n
\leq z)$, where $Z_n=Z(W_n)$ is the Bhattacharyya process, and its dependence
to the rate of transmission R. We show that for a BMS channel $W$, for $R <
I(W)$ we have $\lim_{n \to \infty} \mathbb{P} (Z_n \leq
2^{-2^{\frac{n}{2}+\sqrt{n} \frac{Q^{-1}(\frac{R}{I(W)})}{2} +o(\sqrt{n})}}) =
R$ and for $R<1- I(W)$ we have $\lim_{n \to \infty} \mathbb{P} (Z_n \geq
1-2^{-2^{\frac{n}{2}+ \sqrt{n} \frac{Q^{-1}(\frac{R}{1-I(W)})}{2}
+o(\sqrt{n})}}) = R$, where $Q(x)$ is the probability that a standard normal
random variable will obtain a value larger than $x$. As a result, if we denote
by $\mathbb{P}_e ^{\text{SC}}(n,R)$ the probability of error using polar codes
of block-length $N=2^n$ and rate $R<I(W)$ under successive cancellation
decoding, then $\log(-\log(\mathbb{P}_e ^{\text{SC}}(n,R)))$ scales as
$\frac{n}{2}+\sqrt{n}\frac{Q^{-1}(\frac{R}{I(W)})}{2}+ o(\sqrt{n})$. We also
prove that the same result holds for the block error probability using the MAP
decoder, i.e., for $\log(-\log(\mathbb{P}_e ^{\text{MAP}}(n,R)))$.


Near concavity of the growth rate for coupled LDPC chains

  Convolutional Low-Density-Parity-Check (LDPC) ensembles have excellent
performance. Their iterative threshold increases with their average degree, or
with the size of the coupling window in randomized constructions. In the later
case, as the window size grows, the Belief Propagation (BP) threshold attains
the maximum-a-posteriori (MAP) threshold of the underlying ensemble. In this
contribution we show that a similar phenomenon happens for the growth rate of
coupled ensembles. Loosely speaking, we observe that as the coupling strength
grows, the growth rate of the coupled ensemble comes close to the concave hull
of the underlying ensemble's growth rate. For ensembles randomly coupled across
a window the growth rate actually tends to the concave hull of the underlying
one as the window size increases. Our observations are supported by the
calculations of the combinatorial growth rate, and that of the growth rate
derived from the replica method. The observed concavity is a general feature of
coupled mean field graphical models and is already present at the level of
coupled Curie-Weiss models. There, the canonical free energy of the coupled
system tends to the concave hull of the underlying one. As we explain, the
behavior of the growth rate of coupled ensembles is exactly analogous.


Chains of Mean Field Models

  We consider a collection of Curie-Weiss (CW) spin systems, possibly with a
random field, each of which is placed along the positions of a one-dimensional
chain. The CW systems are coupled together by a Kac-type interaction in the
longitudinal direction of the chain and by an infinite range interaction in the
direction transverse to the chain. Our motivations for studying this model come
from recent findings in the theory of error correcting codes based on spatially
coupled graphs. We find that, although much simpler than the codes, the model
studied here already displays similar behaviors. We are interested in the van
der Waals curve in a regime where the size of each Curie-Weiss model tends to
infinity, and the length of the chain and range of the Kac interaction are
large but finite. Below the critical temperature, and with appropriate boundary
conditions, there appears a series of equilibrium states representing kink-like
interfaces between the two equilibrium states of the individual system. The van
der Waals curve oscillates periodically around the Maxwell plateau. These
oscillations have a period inversely proportional to the chain length and an
amplitude exponentially small in the range of the interaction; in other words
the spinodal points of the chain model lie exponentially close to the phase
transition threshold. The amplitude of the oscillations is closely related to a
Peierls-Nabarro free energy barrier for the motion of the kink along the chain.
Analogies to similar phenomena and their possible algorithmic significance for
graphical models of interest in coding theory and theoretical computer science
are pointed out.


Finite-Length Scaling of Polar Codes

  Consider a binary-input memoryless output-symmetric channel $W$. Such a
channel has a capacity, call it $I(W)$, and for any $R<I(W)$ and strictly
positive constant $P_{\rm e}$ we know that we can construct a coding scheme
that allows transmission at rate $R$ with an error probability not exceeding
$P_{\rm e}$. Assume now that we let the rate $R$ tend to $I(W)$ and we ask how
we have to "scale" the blocklength $N$ in order to keep the error probability
fixed to $P_{\rm e}$. We refer to this as the "finite-length scaling" behavior.
This question was addressed by Strassen as well as Polyanskiy, Poor and Verdu,
and the result is that $N$ must grow at least as the square of the reciprocal
of $I(W)-R$.
  Polar codes are optimal in the sense that they achieve capacity. In this
paper, we are asking to what degree they are also optimal in terms of their
finite-length behavior. Our approach is based on analyzing the dynamics of the
un-polarized channels. The main results of this paper can be summarized as
follows. Consider the sum of Bhattacharyya parameters of sub-channels chosen
(by the polar coding scheme) to transmit information. If we require this sum to
be smaller than a given value $P_{\rm e}>0$, then the required block-length $N$
scales in terms of the rate $R < I(W)$ as $N \geq
\frac{\alpha}{(I(W)-R)^{\underline{\mu}}}$, where $\alpha$ is a positive
constant that depends on $P_{\rm e}$ and $I(W)$, and $\underline{\mu} = 3.579$.
Also, we show that with the same requirement on the sum of Bhattacharyya
parameters, the block-length scales in terms of the rate like $N \leq
\frac{\beta}{(I(W)-R)^{\overline{\mu}}}$, where $\beta$ is a constant that
depends on $P_{\rm e}$ and $I(W)$, and $\overline{\mu}=6$.


Universal Polar Codes

  Polar codes, invented by Arikan in 2009, are known to achieve the capacity of
any binary-input memoryless output-symmetric channel. One of the few drawbacks
of the original polar code construction is that it is not universal. This means
that the code has to be tailored to the channel if we want to transmit close to
capacity.
  We present two "polar-like" schemes which are capable of achieving the
compound capacity of the whole class of binary-input memoryless
output-symmetric channels with low complexity.
  Roughly speaking, for the first scheme we stack up $N$ polar blocks of length
$N$ on top of each other but shift them with respect to each other so that they
form a "staircase." Coding then across the columns of this staircase with a
standard Reed-Solomon code, we can achieve the compound capacity using a
standard successive decoder to process the rows (the polar codes) and in
addition a standard Reed-Solomon erasure decoder to process the columns.
Compared to standard polar codes this scheme has essentially the same
complexity per bit but a block length which is larger by a factor $O(N
\log_2(N)/\epsilon)$, where $\epsilon$ is the gap to capacity.
  For the second scheme we first show how to construct a true polar code which
achieves the compound capacity for a finite number of channels. We achieve this
by introducing special "polarization" steps which "align" the good indices for
the various channels. We then show how to exploit the compactness of the space
of binary-input memoryless output-symmetric channels to reduce the compound
capacity problem for this class to a compound capacity problem for a finite set
of channels. This scheme is similar in spirit to standard polar codes, but the
price for universality is a considerably larger blocklength.
  We close with what we consider to be some interesting open problems.


