On and beyond propagation of singularities of viscosity solutions

  This is a survey paper for the recent results on and beyond propagation of
singularities of viscosity solutions. We also collect some open problems in
this topic.


Compact embedded $λ$-torus in Euclidean spaces

  In this paper, we construct compact embedded $\lambda$-hypersurfaces with the
topology of torus which are called $\lambda$-torus in Euclidean spaces $\mathbb
{R}^{n+1}$.


Estimating the Probability of Wind Ramping Events: A Data-driven
  Approach

  This letter proposes a data-driven method for estimating the probability of
wind ramping events without exploiting the exact probability distribution
function (PDF) of wind power. Actual wind data validates the proposed method.


Generalized characteristics and Lax-Oleinik operators: global theory

  For autonomous Tonelli systems on $\R^n$, we develop an intrinsic proof of
the existence of generalized characteristics using sup-convolutions. This
approach, together with convexity estimates for the fundamental solution, leads
to new results such as the global propagation of singularities along
generalized characteristics.


Lasry-Lions approximations for discounted Hamilton-Jacobi equations

  We study the Lasry-Lions approximation using the kernel determined by the
fundamental solution with respect to a time-dependent Tonelli Lagrangian. This
approximation process is also applied to the viscosity solutions of the
discounted Hamilton-Jacobi equations.


On the vanishing contact structure for viscosity solutions of contact
  type Hamilton-Jacobi equations I: Cauchy problem

  We study the representation formulae for the fundamental solutions and
viscosity solutions of the Hamilton-Jacobi equations of contact type. We also
obtain a vanishing contact structure result for relevant Cauchy problems which
can be regarded as an extension to the vanishing discount problem.


Dynamic and asymptotic behavior of singularities of certain weak KAM
  solutions on the torus

  For mechanical Hamiltonian systems on the torus, we study the dynamical
properties of the generalized characteristics semiflows associated with certain
Hamilton-Jacobi equations, and build the relation between the $\omega$-limit
set of this semiflow and the projected Aubry set.


A lower bound for eigenvalues of a clamped plate problem

  In this paper, we study eigenvalues of a clamped plate problem. We obtain a
lower bound for eigenvalues, which gives an important improvement of results
due to Levine and Protter.


Upper and lower bounds for eigenvalues of the clamped plate problem

  In this paper, we study estimates for eigenvalues of the clamped plate
problem. A sharp upper bound for eigenvalues is given and the lower bound for
eigenvalues in [10] is improved.


Complete $λ$-surfaces in $\mathbb R^3$

  The purpose of this paper is to study complete $\lambda$-surfaces in
Euclidean space $\mathbb R^3$. A complete classification for 2-dimensional
complete $\lambda$-surfaces in Euclidean space $\mathbb R^3$ with constant
squared norm of the second fundamental form is given.


Estimates for Eigenvalues of Poly-harmonic Operators

  In this paper, we study eigenvalues of the poly-Laplacian with arbitrary
order on a bounded domain in an n-dimensional Euclidean space and obtain a
lower bound for eigenvalues, which generalizes the results due to Cheng-Wei [5]
and gives an improvement of results due to Cheng- Qi-Wei [3].


Growth of honeycomb-symmetrical Mn nanodots arrays on Si(111)-7*7
  surface

  The growth of well-ordered Mn nanodots arrays on Si(111)-7*7 reconstructed
surface was investigated by means of scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) as
well as Kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) simulation. Mn atoms deposited slowly onto
elevated substrates were observed to occupy preferentially on the faulted half
unit cells (FHUCs) of Si(111)-7*7 surface. The preference occupancy in the
FHUCs, PF, defined as the ratio of number of FHUCs occupied by Mn nanodots to
number of all occupied in two halves, decreases with increasing deposition rate
as well as decreasing substrate temperature. The KMC simulations, which are in
good agreement with the experimental results, were employed to optimize the
growth conditions, including deposition rate and substrate temperature, for the
self-organized growth of Mn nanodots arrays on Si(111)-7*7 reconstructed
surface. By adjusting the deposition rate, one can control the growth of
well-ordered and uniform Mn nanodots arrays to form either a triangular
symmetry or a honeycomb one.


Estimates for lower order eigenvalues of a clamped plate problem

  For a bounded domain $\Omega$ in a complete Riemannian manifold $M^n$, we
study estimates for lower order eigenvalues of a clamped plate problem. We
obtain universal inequalities for lower order eigenvalues. We would like to
remark that our results are sharp.


A lower bound for eigenvalues of the poly-Laplacian with arbitrary order

  In this paper, we study eigenvalues of the poly-Laplacian with arbitrary
order on a bounded domain in an $n$-dimensional Euclidean space and obtain a
lower bound for eigenvalues, which gives an important improvement of results
due to Levine and Protter. In particular, the result of Melas is included here.


A gap theorem of self-shrinkers

  In this paper, we study complete self-shrinkers in Euclidean space and prove
that an $n$-dimensional complete self-shrinker with polynomial volume growth in
Euclidean space $\mathbb{R}^{n+1}$ is isometric to either $\mathbb{R}^{n}$,
$S^{n}(\sqrt{n})$, or $\mathbb{R}^{n-m}\times S^m (\sqrt{m})$, $1\leq m\leq
n-1$, if the squared norm $S$ of the second fundamental form is constant and
satisfies $S<(10/7)$.


The Gauss image of $λ$-hypersurfaces and a Bernstein type problem

  In this paper, our purpose is to study rigidity theorems for
$\lambda$-hypersurfaces in Euclidean space under Gauss map. As a Bernstein type
problem for $\lambda$-hypersurfaces, we prove that an entirely graphic
$\lambda$-hypersurface in Euclidean space is a hyperplane.


Complete Lagrangian self-shrinkers in $\mathbf R^4$

  The purpose of this paper is to study complete self-shrinkers of mean
curvature flow in Euclidean spaces. In the paper, we give a complete
classification for 2-dimensional complete Lagrangian self-shrinkers in
Euclidean space $\mathbb R^4$ with constant squared norm of the second
fundamental form.


Lasry-Lions, Lax-Oleinik and Generalized characteristics

  In the recent works \cite{Cannarsa-Chen-Cheng} and \cite{Cannarsa-Cheng3}, an
intrinsic approach of the propagation of singularities along the generalized
characteristics was obtained, even in global case, by a procedure of
sup-convolution with the kernel the fundamental solutions of the associated
Hamilton-Jacobi equations.
  In the present paper, we exploit the relations among Lasry-Lions
regularization, Lax-Oleinik operators (or inf/sup-convolution) and generalized
characteristics, which are discussed in the context of the variational setting
of Tonelli Hamiltonian dynamics, such as Mather theory and weak KAM theory.


On-chip electro-optic tuning of a lithium niobate microresonator with
  integrated in-plane microelectrodes

  We demonstrate electro-optic tuning of an on-chip lithium niobate
microresonator with integrated in-plane microelectrodes. First two metallic
microelectrodes on the substrate were formed via femtosecond laser process.
Then a high-Q lithium niobate microresonator located between the
microelectrodes was fabricated by femtosecond laser direct writing accompanied
by focused ion beam milling. Due to the efficient structure designing, high
electro-optical tuning coefficient of 3.41 pm/V was observed.


Herglotz' generalized variational principle and contact type
  Hamilton-Jacobi equations

  We develop an approach for the analysis of fundamental solutions to
Hamilton-Jacobi equations of contact type based on a generalized variational
principle proposed by Gustav Herglotz. We also give a quantitative Lipschitz
estimate on the associated minimizers.


Vanishing contact structure problem and convergence of the viscosity
  solutions

  This paper is devoted to study the vanishing contact structure problem which
is a generalization of the vanishing discount problem. Let $H^\lambda(x,p,u)$
be a family of Hamiltonians of contact type with parameter $\lambda>0$ and
converges to $G(x,p)$. For the contact type Hamilton-Jacobi equation with
respect to $H^\lambda$, we prove that, under mild assumptions, the associated
viscosity solution $u^{\lambda}$ converges to a specific viscosity solution
$u^0$ of the vanished contact equation. As applications, we give some
convergence results for the nonlinear vanishing discount problem.


Cheng-Weyl Vector Field and its Cosmological Application

  Weyl's idea on scale invariance was resurrected by Cheng in 1988. The
requirement of local scale invariance leads to a completely new vector field,
which we call the ``Cheng-Weyl vector field''. The Cheng-Weyl vector field
couples only to a scalar field and the gravitational field naturally. It does
not interact with other known matters in the standard model of particle
physics. In the present work, the (generalized) Cheng-Weyl vector field coupled
with the scalar field and its cosmological application are investigated. A
mixture of the scalar field and a so-called ``cosmic triad'' of three mutually
orthogonal Cheng-Weyl vector fields is regarded as the dark energy in the
universe. The cosmological evolution of this ``mixed'' dark energy model is
studied. We find that the effective equation-of-state parameter of the dark
energy can cross the phantom divide $w_{de}=-1$ in some cases; the first and
second cosmological coincidence problems can be alleviated at the same time in
this model.


A sparse grid discontinuous Galerkin method for high-dimensional
  transport equations and its application to kinetic simulations

  In this paper, we develop a sparse grid discontinuous Galerkin (DG) scheme
for transport equations and applied it to kinetic simulations. The method uses
the weak formulations of traditional Runge-Kutta DG (RKDG) schemes for
hyperbolic problems and is proven to be $L^2$ stable and convergent. A major
advantage of the scheme lies in its low computational and storage cost due to
the employed sparse finite element approximation space. This attractive feature
is explored in simulating Vlasov and Boltzmann transport equations. Good
performance in accuracy and conservation is verified by numerical tests in up
to four dimensions.


Embedded constant $m^{\text{th}}$ mean curvature hypersurfaces on
  spheres

  In this paper, we study $n$-dimensional hypersurfaces with constant
$m^{\text{th}}$ mean curvature $H_m$ in a unit sphere $S^{n+1}(1)$ and prove
that if the $m^{\text{th}}$ mean curvature $H_m$ takes value between
  $\dfrac{1}{(\tan \frac{\pi}{k})^m}$ and
$\frac{k^2-2}{n}(\frac{k^2+m-2}{n-m})^{\frac{m-2}{2}}$ for $1\leq m\leq n-1$
and any integer $k\geq 2$, then there exists at least one $n$-dimensional
compact nontrivial embedded hypersurface with constant $H_m>0$ in $S^{n+1}(1)$.
When $m=1$, our results reduce to the results of Perdomo \cite{[P]}; when $m=2$
and $m=4$, our results reduce to the results of Cheng-Li-Wei \cite{[WCL]}.


Lensless Fourier-Transform Ghost Imaging with Classical Incoherent Light

  The Fourier-Transform ghost imaging of both amplitude-only and pure-phase
objects was experimentally observed with classical incoherent light at Fresnel
distance by a new lensless scheme. The experimental results are in good
agreement with the standard Fourier-transform of the corresponding objects.
This scheme provides a new route towards aberration-free diffraction-limited 3D
images with classically incoherent thermal light, which have no resolution and
depth-of-field limitations of lens-based tomographic systems.


Interferometric characterization of pulse front tilt of spatiotemporally
  focused femtosecond laser pulses for three-dimensional micromachining
  application

  We report on an experimental measurement of the pulse front tilt (PFT) of
spatiotemporally focused femtosecond laser pulses in the focal plane in both
air and bulk transparent materials, which is achieved by examination of the
interference pattern between the spatiotemporally focused pulse and a
conventional focused reference pulse as a function of time delay between the
two pulses. Our simulation results agree well with the experimental
observations.


Backward air lasing actions induced by femtosecond laser filamentation:
  influence of population inversion lifetime

  We experimentally investigate generation of backward 357 nm N2 laser in a gas
mixture of N2/Ar using 800-nm femtosecond laser pulses, and examine the
involved gain dynamics based on pump-probe measurements. Our findings show that
a minimum lifetime of population inversion in the excited N2 molecules is
required for generating intense backward nitrogen lasers, which is ~0.8 ns
under our experimental conditions. The results shed new light on the mechanism
for generating intense backward lasers from ambient air, which are highly in
demand for high sensitivity remote atmospheric sensing application.


Transverse writing of three-dimensional tubular optical waveguides in
  glass with slit-shaped femtosecond laser beams

  We report on fabrication of tubular optical waveguides buried in ZBLAN glass
based on transverse femtosecond laser direct writing. Irradiation in ZBLAN with
focused femtosecond laser pulses leads to decrease of refractive index in the
modified region. Tubular optical waveguides of variable mode areas are
fabricated by forming the four sides of the cladding with slit-shaped
femtosecond laser pulses, ensuring single mode waveguiding with a mode field
dimension as small as ~ 4 {\mu}m.


Twisted sectors from plane partitions

  Twisted sectors arise naturally in the bosonic higher spin CFTs at their free
points, as well as in the associated symmetric orbifolds. We identify the coset
representations of the twisted sector states using the description of W_\infty
representations in terms of plane partitions. We confirm these proposals by a
microscopic null-vector analysis, and by matching the excitation spectrum of
these representations with the orbifold prediction.


Non-perturbative generation of above-threshold harmonics from
  pre-excited argon atoms in intense mid-infrared laser fields

  We experimentally investigate the generation of above-threshold harmonics
completely from argon atoms on an excited state using mid-infrared femtosecond
laser pulses. The highly nonlinear dependences of the observed signal on the
pulse energy and polarization of the driver laser pulses indicate its
non-perturbative characteristic.


Time-resolved shadowgraphs of transient plasma induced by
  spatiotemporally focused femtosecond laser pulses in fused silica glass

  We report on experimental observations of formation and evolution of
transient plasma produced in fused silica glass with spatiotemporally focused
(STF) femtosecond laser pulses using a pump-probe shadow imaging technique.
Surprisingly, the observation shows that the track of the plasma is
significantly curved, which is attributed to an asymmetric density distribution
of the transient plasma produced in the focal volume caused by the pulse front
tilt of the STF laser field.


Fabrication of polarization-independent single-mode waveguides in
  lithium niobate crystal with femtosecond laser pulses

  We report on fabrication of depressed cladding optical waveguides buried in
lithium niobate crystal with shaped femtosecond laser pulses. Depressed
cladding waveguides of variable mode-field sizes are fabricated by forming the
four sides of the cladding using a slit-beam shaping technique. We show that
the waveguides fabricated by our technique allows single-mode propagation of
the light polarized in both vertical and horizontal directions.


High-throughput in-volume processing in glass with isotropic spatial
  resolutions in three dimensions

  We report on fabrication of three dimensional (3D) microstructures in glass
with isotropic spatial resolutions. To achieve high throughput fabrication, we
expand the focal spot size with a low-numerical-aperture lens, which naturally
results in a degraded axial resolution. We solve the problem with simultaneous
spatial temporal focusing which leads to an isotropic laser-affected volume
with a spatial resolution of ~100 micron.


Monolithic integration of a high-quality factor lithium niobate
  microresonator with a free-standing membrane waveguide using femtosecond
  laser assisted ion beam writing (FLAIBW)

  We demonstrate integrating a high quality factor lithium niobate microdisk
resonator with a free-standing membrane waveguide. Our technique is based on
femtosecond laser direct writing which produces the pre-structure, followed by
focused ion beam milling which reduces the surface roughness of sidewall of the
fabricated structure to nanometer scale. Efficient light coupling between the
integrated waveguide and microdisk was achieved, and the quality factor of the
microresonator was measured as high as 1.67*10^5.


Metal surface structuring with spatiotemporally focused femtosecond
  laser pulses

  Femtosecond laser micromachining provides high precision and less thermal
diffusion in surface structuring as a result of the ultrashort temporal
duration and ultrahigh peak intensity of the femtosecond laser pulses. To
increase the throughput of surface patterning, the focal spot size can be
expanded with loose focusing, which, however, could lead to nonlinear
self-focusing of the pulses when the pulses propagate in air. We solve the
problem by use of spatiotemporally focused femtosecond laser pulses for
ablation of metal surfaces, which gives rise to improved surface quality as
compared with that obtained with the conventional focusing scheme.


Fabrication of high quality factor lithium niobate double-disk using a
  femtosecond laser

  We demonstrate fabrication of a high quality factor lithium niobate
double-disk whispering-gallery microcavity using femtosecond laser assisted ion
beam milling. Using this method, two vertically stacked 30-um-diameter disks
with a 200-nm-gap are fabricated. With our device, an optical quality factor as
high as 1.2*10^5 is demonstrated. Our approach is scalable to fabricate
multiple disks on a single chip.


Suppression of bend loss in writing of three-dimensional optical
  waveguides with femtosecond laser pulses

  We provide a solution toward compact and low-loss three dimensional (3D)
photonic circuits by femtosecond laser direct writing of 3D waveguides in fused
silica. We suppress the bend loss by sandwiching the waveguide between a pair
of walls formed by internal modification of glass. Our method allows to reduce
the bend loss of a curved waveguide with a bending radius of 15 mm by more than
one order of magnitude.


Aberration-free three dimensional micromachining in glass with
  spatiotemporally shaped femtosecond laser pulses

  We observe that focusing a femtosecond laser beam simultaneously chirped in
time and space domains in glass can efficiently suppress the optical aberration
caused by the refractive index mismatch at the interface of air and the glass
sample. We then demonstrate three dimensional microprocessing in glass with a
nearly invariant spatial resolution for a large range of penetration depth
between 0.25 mm and 9 mm without any aberration correction.


Lithium niobate micro-disk resonators of quality factors above 10^7

  We report on fabrication of crystalline lithium niobate microresonators with
quality factors above 10^7 as measured around 770 nm wavelength. Our technique
relies on femtosecond laser micromachining for patterning a mask coated on the
lithium niobate on insulate (LNOI) into a microdisk, followed by a
chemo-mechanical polishing process for transferring the disk-shaped pattern to
the LNOI. Nonlinear processes including second harmonic generation and Raman
scattering have been demonstrated in the fabricated microdisk.


High Dimensional Robust Inference for Cox Regression Models

  We consider high-dimensional inference for potentially misspecified Cox
proportional hazard models based on low dimensional results by Lin and Wei
[1989]. A de-sparsified Lasso estimator is proposed based on the log partial
likelihood function and shown to converge to a pseudo-true parameter vector.
Interestingly, the sparsity of the true parameter can be inferred from that of
the above limiting parameter. Moreover, each component of the above
(non-sparse) estimator is shown to be asymptotically normal with a variance
that can be consistently estimated even under model misspecifications. In some
cases, this asymptotic distribution leads to valid statistical inference
procedures, whose empirical performances are illustrated through numerical
examples.


Toward Fast and Accurate Neural Chinese Word Segmentation with
  Multi-Criteria Learning

  The ambiguous annotation criteria bring into the divergence of Chinese Word
Segmentation (CWS) datasets with various granularities. Multi-criteria learning
leverage the annotation style of individual datasets and mine their common
basic knowledge. In this paper, we proposed a domain adaptive segmenter to
capture diverse criteria of datasets. Our model is based on Bidirectional
Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), which is responsible for
introducing external knowledge. We also optimize its computational efficiency
via model pruning, quantization, and compiler optimization. Experiments show
that our segmenter outperforms the previous results on 10 CWS datasets and is
faster than the previous state-of-the-art Bi-LSTM-CRF model.


Homoclinic orbits and critical points of barrier functions

  We interpret the close link between the critical points of Mather's barrier
functions and minimal homoclinic orbits with respect to the Aubry sets on
$\mathbb{T}^n$. We also prove a critical point theorem for barrier functions,
and the existence of such homoclinic orbits on $\mathbb{T}^2$ as an
application.


Estimates for lower bounds of eigenvalues of the poly-Laplacian and
  quadratic polynomial operator of the Laplacian

  In this paper, we investigate the Dirchlet eigenvalue problems of
poly-Laplacian with any order and quadratic polynomial operator of the
Laplacian. We give some estimates for lower bounds of the sums of their first
$k$ eigenvalues which improve the previous results.


Moderate deviations for the Langevin equation with strong damping

  In this paper, we establish a moderate deviations principle for the Langevin
dynamics with strong damping. The weak convergence approach plays an important
role in the proof.


Updating quadratic palindromic models with no spillover effect on
  unmeasured spectral data

  This paper concerns the model updating problems with no spillover of the
quadratic palindromic system $P(\lambda)=\lambda^2 A^{\star}+\lambda Q+A$


On the Existence of a Closed, Embedded, Rotational
  $λ$-Hypersurface

  In this paper we show the existence of a closed, embedded
$\lambda$-hypersurfaces $\Sigma \subset \mathbb{R}^{2n}$. The hypersurface is
diffeomorhic to $\mathbb{S}^{n-1} \times \mathbb{S}^{n-1} \times \mathbb{S}^1$
and exhibits $SO(n) \times SO(n)$ symmetry. Our approach uses a "shooting
method" similar to the approach used by McGrath in constructing a generalized
self-shrinking torus solution to mean curvature flow. The result generalizes
the $\lambda$-torus found by Cheng and Wei.


Cygnus X-1: A Spinning Black Hole?

  It has been a long-standing puzzle what triggers the spectral transition
between the hard and soft states in Cyg X-1. Also, the origin of the frequently
observed X-ray flares in the source still remains a mystery. In this paper, we
will make an attempt to address these issues in light of our recent work on
black hole spin and its observational consequences.


Embedded hypersurfaces with constant $m^{\text{th}}$ mean curvature in a
  unit sphere

  In this paper, we study $n$-dimensional hypersurfaces with constant
$m^{\text{th}}$ mean curvature in a unit sphere $S^{n+1}(1)$ and construct many
compact nontrivial embedded hypersurfaces with constant $m^{\text{th}}$ mean
curvature $H_m>0$ in $S^{n+1}(1)$, for $1\leq m\leq n-1$. In particular, if the
$4^{\text{th}}$ mean curvature $H_4$ takes value between $\dfrac{1}{(\tan
\frac{\pi}{k})^4}$ and $\dfrac{k^4-4}{n(n-4)}$ for any integer $k\geq3$, then
there exists an $n$-dimensional ($n\geq 5$) compact nontrivial embedded
hypersurface with constant $H_4$ in $S^{n+1}(1)$.


Rigidity theorems of $λ$-hypersurfaces

  Since $n$-dimensional $\lambda$-hypersurfaces in the Euclidean space $\mathbb
{R}^{n+1}$ are critical points of the weighted area functional for the weighted
volume-preserving variations, in this paper, we study the rigidity properties
of complete $\lambda$-hypersurfaces. We give a gap theorem of complete
$\lambda$-hypersurfaces with polynomial area growth. By making use of the
generalized maximum principle for $\mathcal L$ of $\lambda$-hypersurfaces, we
prove a rigidity theorem of complete $\lambda$-hypersurfaces.


A gap for eigenvalues of a clamped plate problem

  This paper studies eigenvalues of the clamped plate problem on a bounded
domain in an $n$-dimensional Euclidean space. We give an estimate for the gap
between $\sqrt {\Gamma_{k+1}-\Gamma_{1}}$ and $\sqrt {\Gamma_{k}-\Gamma_{1}}$,
for any positive integer $k$. According to the asymptotic formula of Agmon and
Pleijel, we know, the gap between $\sqrt {\Gamma_{k+1}-\Gamma_{1}}$ and $\sqrt
{\Gamma_{k}-\Gamma_{1}}$ is bounded by a term with a lower order $k^{\frac1n}$
in the sense of the asymptotic formula of Agmon and Peijel, where $\Gamma_j$
denotes the $j^{^{\text{th}}}$ eigenvalue of the clamped plate problem.


