Stability of Gorenstein objects in triangulated categories

  Let $\mathcal{C}$ be a triangulated category with a proper class $\xi$ of
triangles. Asadollahi and Salarian introduced and studied $\xi$-Gorenstein
projective and $\xi$-Gorenstein injective objects, and developed Gorenstein
homological algebra in $\mathcal{C}$. In this paper, we further study
Gorenstein homological properties for a triangulated category. First, we
discuss the stability of $\xi$-Gorenstein projective objects, and show that the
subcategory $\mathcal{GP}(\xi)$ of all $\xi$-Gorenstein projective objects has
a strong stability. That is, an iteration of the procedure used to define the
$\xi$-Gorenstein projective objects yields exactly the $\xi$-Gorenstein
projective objects. Second, we give some equivalent characterizations for
$\xi$-Gorenstein projective dimension of object in $\mathcal{C}$.


Nonlinear Fokker-Planck equations for Probability Measures on Path Space
  and Path-Distribution Dependent SDEs

  By investigating path-distribution dependent stochastic differential
equations, the following type of nonlinear Fokker--Planck equations for
probability measures $(\mu_t)_{t \geq 0}$ on the path space $\mathcal
C:=C([-r_0,0];\mathbb R^d),$ is analyzed: $$\partial_t
\mu(t)=L_{t,\mu_t}^*\mu_t,\ \ t\ge 0,$$ where $\mu(t)$ is the image of $\mu_t$
under the projection $\mathcal C\ni\xi\mapsto \xi(0)\in\mathbb R^d$, and
$$L_{t,\mu}(\xi):= \frac 1 2\sum_{i,j=1}^d a_{ij}(t,\xi,\mu)\frac{\partial^2}
{\partial_{\xi(0)_i} \partial_{\xi(0)_j}}
  +\sum_{i=1}^d b_i(t,\xi,\mu)\frac{\partial}{\partial_{\xi(0)_i}},\ \ t\ge 0,
\xi\in \mathcal C, \mu\in
  \mathcal P^{\mathcal C}.$$ Under reasonable conditions on the coefficients
$a_{ij}$ and $b_i$, the existence, uniqueness, Lipschitz continuity in
Wasserstein distance, total variational norm and entropy, as well as derivative
estimates are derived for the martingale solutions.


Lower Bounds of the Hausdorff dimension for Feller processes

  Let $(X_t)_{t\ge0}$ be a Feller process generated by a pseudo-differential
operator whose symbol satisfies $\|p(\cdot,\xi)\|_\infty\le c(1+|\xi|^2)$ and
$p(\cdot,0)\equiv0.$ We prove that, for a large class of examples, the
Hausdorff dimension of the set $\{X_t: t\in E\}$ for any analytic set $E\subset
[0,\infty)$ is almost surely bounded below by $\betalower \Dh E$, where
\begin{align*}
  \betalower&:=\sup\left\{\delta>0: \lim_{|\xi|\to \infty}
\frac{\inf_{z\in\R^d} \Re p(z,\xi)}{|\xi|^\delta}=\infty\right\}.
\end{align*}This, along with the upper bound $ \betaupperstar \Dh E$ with
\begin{align*}
  \betaupperstar
  &:=\inf\left\{\delta>0: \lim_{|\xi|\to \infty}\frac{\sup_{|\eta|\le
{|\xi|}}\sup_{z\in\R^d} |p(z,\eta)|}{|\xi|^\delta}=0\right\}
  \end{align*} established in B\"{o}ttcher, Schilling and Wang (2014), extends
the dimension estimates for L\'{e}vy processes of Blumenthal and Getoor (1961)
and Millar (1971) to Feller processes.


Analysis of the vertexes $Ξ_Q^*Ξ'_Q V$, $Σ_Q^*Σ_Q V$ and
  radiative decays $Ξ_Q^*\to Ξ'_Q γ$, $Σ_Q^*\to Σ_Q γ$

  In this article, we study the vertexes $\Xi_Q^*\Xi'_Q V$ and $\Sigma_Q^*
\Sigma_Q V$ with the light-cone QCD sum rules, then assume the vector meson
dominance of the intermediate $\phi(1020)$, $\rho(770)$ and $\omega(782)$, and
calculate the radiative decays $\Xi_Q^*\to \Xi'_Q \gamma$ and $\Sigma_Q^*\to
\Sigma_Q \gamma$.


Reanalysis of the heavy baryon states $Ω_b$, $Ω_c$, $Ξ'_b$,
  $Ξ'_c$, $Σ_b$ and $Σ_c$ with QCD sum rules

  In this article, we re-study the heavy baryon states $\Omega_b$, $\Omega_c$,
$\Xi'_b$, $\Xi'_c$, $\Sigma_b$ and $\Sigma_c$ with the QCD sum rules, after
subtracting the contributions from the corresponding negative parity heavy
baryon states, the predicted masses are in good agreement with the experimental
data.


Inequalities on generalized matrix functions

  We prove inequalities on non-integer powers of products of generalized
matrices functions on the sum of positive semi-definite matrices. For example,
for any real number $r \in \{1\} \cup [2, \infty)$, positive semi-definite
matrices $A_i,\ B_i,\ C_i\in M_{n_i}$, $i=1,2$, and generalized matrix
functions $d_\chi, d_\xi$ such as the determinant and permanent, etc., we have
\begin{eqnarray*}&&\left(d_\chi(A_1+B_1+C_1)d_\xi(A_2+B_2+C_2)\right)^r \\
&&\hskip 1in
  + \left(d_\chi(A_1)d_\xi(A_2)\right)^r
  + \left(d_\chi(B_1)d_\xi(B_2)\right)^r + \left(d_\chi(C_1)d_\xi(C_2)\right)^r
\\ & \ge &\left(d_\chi(A_1+B_1 )d_\xi(A_2+B_2 )\right)^r + \left(d_\chi(A_1+
C_1)d_\xi(A_2+ C_2)\right)^r + \left(d_\chi( B_1+C_1)d_\xi(
B_2+C_2)\right)^r\,.\end{eqnarray*} A general scheme is introduced to prove
more general inequalities involving $m$ positive semi-definite matrices for $m
\ge 3$ that extend the results of other authors.


A Monte Carlo Study of Single Baryon Reconstruction Method

  A Monte Carlo study for single baryon reconstruction method is presented
based on two-body baryonic decays of charmonium, $jJ/\psi$,
$\psi(3686)\rightarrow\Xi\bar\Xi$ at BESIII experiment. As a result, we find
that the detection efficiency for single baryon reconstruction method can be
increased by a factor of $\sim$4 relative to the traditional
full-reconstruction method. It indicates that single baryon reconstruction
method could be used in the other two-body baryonic decays of charmonium, such
as $J/\psi$, $\psi(3686)\rightarrow\Xi(1530)\bar\Xi(1530)$, $\Xi(1530)\bar\Xi$,
whose expected yields are estimated based on single baryon reconstruction
method. The expected uncertainties for the measurements of the angular
distribution parameters are also discussed.


Analyzing $Ξ(1620)$ in the molecule picture in the Bethe-Salpeter
  equation approach

  In this work, we assume that the observed state $\Xi(1620)$ is a $s$-wave
$\Lambda\bar{K}$ or $\Sigma\bar{K}$ bound state. Based on this molecule
picture, we establish the Bethe-Salpeter equations for $\Xi(1620)$ in the
ladder and instantaneous approximations. We solve the Bethe-Salpeter equations
for the $\Lambda\bar{K}$ and $\Sigma\bar{K}$ systems numerically and find that
the $\Xi(1620)$ can be explained as $\Lambda\bar{K}$ and $\Sigma\bar{K}$ bound
states with $J^P=1/2^-$, respectively. Then we calculate the decay widths of
$\Xi(1620)\rightarrow\Xi\pi$ in these two different molecule pictures systems,
respectively.


Stability of vortex in a two-component superconductor

  Thermodynamic stability of composite vortex in a two-component superconductor
is investigated by the Ginzburg-Landau theory. The predicted nature of these
vortices has recently attracted much attention. Here we consider axially
symmetric quantized vortex and show that the stability of vortex depends on
three independent dimensionless parameters: $\kappa _{1}$, $\kappa _{2}$,
$\kappa _{\xi}$, where $\kappa _{i}(i=1,2)$ is the Ginzburg-Landau parameter of
individual component, $\kappa _{\xi }=\xi _{1}/\xi _{2}$ is the ratio of two
coherence lengths. We also show that there exists thermodynamic stable vortex
in type-1+type-2 or type-2+type-2 materials over a range of these three
parameters.


Stability of the de Sitter spacetime in Horava-Lifshitz theory

  The stability of de Sitter spacetime in Horava-Lifshitz theory of gravity
with projectability but without detailed balance condition is studied. It is
found that, in contrast to the case of the Minkowski background, the spin-0
graviton now is stable for any given $\xi$, and free of ghost for $\xi \le 0$
in the infrared limit, where $\xi$ is the dynamical coupling constant.


Finite Size Scaling at the Topological Transition: Bilinear-Biquadratic
  Spin-1 Chain

  We consider a finite size scaling across a topological phase transition
between dimerized and Haldane phases in bilinear-biquadratic spin-1 chain. To
this end we perform high-accuracy variational matrix product state simulations.
We show that the scaling function, expressed in terms of $L/\xi$, where $L$ is
the chain length and $\xi$ is the correlation length, coincides with that of
three species of non-interacting massive Majorana fermions. This is in
agreement with the fact that the critical theory of the model has central
charge $c=3/2$. On the other hand, the correlation length $\xi$ exhibits a
non-trivial dependence on parameters of the model.


Constraints on non-minimal coupling from quantum cosmology

  Quantum cosmology is investigated in a de Sitter minisuperspace model with a
quantized scalar field non-minimally coupled to curvature. Quantum states of
the scalar field must satisfy the regularity condition, which requires that the
probability of field fluctuations should not increase with their amplitude. We
show that this condition imposes constraints on the allowed values of the
curvature coupling parameter $\xi$. This is a surprising result, since the
field dynamics depends only on the combination $m^2+\xi R$, where $m$ is the
field mass and $R = \mathrm{const}$ is the curvature, and does not depend on
$\xi$ separately.


Helicity Amplitude Analysis of $J/ψ$ and
  $ψ(2S)\rightarrowΞ(1530)\barΞ(1530)$

  We perform a helicity amplitude analysis for the processes of
$e^+e^-$$\rightarrow$$J/\psi,\psi(2S)\rightarrow\Xi(1530)\bar\Xi(1530)\rightarrow\pi\pi\Xi\bar\Xi\rightarrow\Lambda\bar\Lambda4\pi\rightarrow
p\bar{p}6\pi$. The joint angular distribution for these processes are obtained,
which allows a proper estimation of the detection efficiency using helicity
amplitude information. In addition, the sensitivities of measurement of hyperon
asymmetry decay parameters for these processes are discussed.


Strong and radiative decays of DΞmolecular state and newly observed
  $Ω_c$ states

  In this work, we study strong and radiative decays of S-wave D\Xi molecular
state, which is related to the \Omega^*_c states newly observed at LHCb. The
coupling between the D\Xi molecular state and its constituents D and \Xi is
calculated by using the compositeness condition. With the obtained coupling,
the partial decay widths of the D\Xi molecular state into the \Xi_c^{+}K^{-},
\Xi^{'+}_cK^{-} and \Omega^{*}_c(2695)\gamma final states through hadronic loop
are calculated with the help of the effective Lagrangians. By comparison with
the LHCb observation, the current results of total decay width support the
\Omega^{*}_c(3119) or \Omega^{*}_c(3050) as D\Xi molecule while the the decay
width of the \Omega^{*}_c(3000), \Omega^{*}_c(3066) and \Omega^{*}_c(3090) can
not be well reproduced in the molecular state picture. The partial decay widths
are also presented and helpful to further understand the internal structures of
\Omega^{*}_c(3119) and \Omega^{*}_c(3050).


Algorithms to test open set condition for self-similar set related to
  P.V. numbers

  Fix a P.V. number $\lambda ^{-1}>1.$ Given
$\mathbf{p}=(p_{1},\cdots,p_{m})\in \mathbb{N}^{m}$,
$\mathbf{b}=(b_{1},\cdots,b_{m})\in \mathbb{Q^{m}$, for the self-similar set
$E_{\mathbf{p},\mathbf{b}}=\cup_{i=1}^{m}(\lambda
^{p_{i}}E_{\mathbf{p},\mathbf{b}}+b_{i})$ we find an efficient algorithm to
test whether $E_{\mathbf{p},\mathbf{b}}$ satisfies the open set condition
(strong separation condition) or not.


Constraining Higher Derivative Supergravity with Scattering Amplitudes

  We study supersymmetry constraints on higher derivative deformations of type
IIB supergravity by consideration of superamplitudes. Combining constraints of
on-shell supervertices and basic results from string perturbation theory, we
give a simple argument for the non-renormalization theorem of Green and Sethi,
and some of its generalizations.


Phases and phase transitions in two dimensional superconducting films

  This paper has been withdrawn by the author


Uniqueness of positive solutions with Concentration for the
  Schrödinger-Newton problem

  We are concerned with the following Schr\"odinger-Newton problem
  \begin{equation}
  -\varepsilon^2\Delta u+V(x)u=\frac{1}{8\pi \varepsilon^2}
  \big(\int_{\mathbb R^3}\frac{u^2(\xi)}{|x-\xi|}d\xi\big)u,~x\in \mathbb R^3.
\end{equation} For $\varepsilon$ small enough, we show the uniqueness of
positive solutions concentrating at the nondegenerate critical points of
$V(x)$. The main tools are a local Pohozaev type of identity, blow-up analysis
and the maximum principle. Our results also show that the asymptotic behavior
of concentrated points to Schr\"odinger-Newton problem is quite different from
those of Schr\"odinger equations.


Analysis of the vertices $ρNN$, $ρΣΣ$ and $ρΞΞ$
  with light-cone QCD sum rules

  In this article, we calculate the strong coupling constants of the $\rho NN$,
$\rho\Sigma\Sigma$ and $\rho\Xi\Xi$ in the framework of the light-cone QCD sum
rules approach. The strong coupling constants of the meson-baryon-baryon are
the fundamental parameters in the one-boson exchange model which describes the
baryon-baryon interactions successfully. The numerical values are in agreement
with the existing calculations in part. The electric and magnetic $F/(F+D)$
ratios deviate from the prediction of the vector meson dominance theory, the
SU(3) symmetry breaking effects are very large.


Analysis of the X(1835) and related baryonium states with Bethe-Salpeter
  equation

  In this article, we study the mass spectrum of the baryon-antibaryon bound
states $p\bar{p}$, $\Sigma\bar{\Sigma}$, $\Xi\bar{\Xi}$,
$\Lambda\bar{\Lambda}$, $p\bar{N}(1440)$, $\Sigma\bar{\Sigma}(1660)$,
$\Xi\bar{\Xi}^\prime$ and $\Lambda\bar{\Lambda}(1600)$ with the Bethe-Salpeter
equation. The numerical results indicate that the $p\bar{p}$,
$\Sigma\bar{\Sigma}$, $\Xi\bar{\Xi}$, $p\bar{N}(1440)$,
$\Sigma\bar{\Sigma}(1660)$, $\Xi\bar{\Xi}^\prime$ bound states maybe exist, and
the new resonances X(1835) and X(2370) can be tentatively identified as the
$p\bar{p}$ and $p\bar{N}(1440)$ (or $N(1400)\bar{p}$) bound states respectively
with some gluon constituents, and the new resonance X(2120) may be a
pseudoscalar glueball. On the other hand, the Regge trajectory favors
identifying the X(1835), X(2120) and X(2370) as the excited $\eta^\prime(958)$
mesons with the radial quantum numbers $n=3$, 4 and 5, respectively.


Study of Phonon Modes in Germanium Nanowires

  The observation of pure phonon confinement effect in germanium nanowires is
limited due to the illumination sensitivity of Raman spectra. In this paper we
measured Raman spectra for different size germanium nanowires with different
excitation laser powers and wavelengths. By eliminating the local heating
effect, the phonon confinement effect for small size nanowires was clearly
identified. We have also fitted the Raman feature changes to estimate the size
distribution of nanowires for the first time.


Analysis of the Isgur-Wise function of the $Λ_b \to Λ_c$
  transition with light-cone QCD sum rules

  In this article, we use the light-cone QCD sum rules to relate the
$\Lambda_b$ baryon light-cone distribution amplitudes to the Isgur-Wise
function $\xi(\omega)$ of the $\Lambda_b \to \Lambda_c$ transition, and obtain
a simple relation. The numerical value of the Isgur-Wise function $\xi(\omega)$
is consistent with the prediction of the QCD sum rules.


Analysis of the $X(1835)$ as a baryonium state with Bethe-Salpeter
  equation

  In this article, we take the X(1835) as a pseudoscalar baryonium state, and
calculate the mass spectrum of the baryon-antibaryon bound states $p\bar{p}$,
$\Sigma\bar{\Sigma}$, $\Xi\bar{\Xi}$, and $\Lambda\bar{\Lambda}$ in the
framework of the Bethe-Salpeter equation with a phenomenological potential. The
numerical results indicate the $p\bar{p}$, $\Sigma\bar{\Sigma}$ and
$\Xi\bar{\Xi}$ bound states maybe exist, and the $X(1835)$ can be tentatively
identified as the $p\bar{p}$ bound state.


Fiber-based ultra-stable frequency synchronization using client-side,
  1f-2f active compensation method

  We demonstrate a frequency synchronization scheme with the phase noise
compensation function placed at the client site. One transmitting module hence
can be linked with multiple client sites. As a performance test, using two
separate 50 km fiber spools, we recover the 100 MHz disseminated reference
frequencies at two remote sites, separately. Relative frequency stabilities
between two recovered frequency signals of 2.8E-14/s and 2.5E-17/day are
obtained. This scalable scheme is suitable for the applications of frequency
dissemination with a star-topology, such as SKA and DSN.


Recognize Foreign Low-Frequency Words with Similar Pairs

  Low-frequency words place a major challenge for automatic speech recognition
(ASR). The probabilities of these words, which are often important name
entities, are generally under-estimated by the language model (LM) due to their
limited occurrences in the training data. Recently, we proposed a word-pair
approach to deal with the problem, which borrows information of frequent words
to enhance the probabilities of low-frequency words. This paper presents an
extension to the word-pair method by involving multiple `predicting words' to
produce better estimation for low-frequency words. We also employ this approach
to deal with out-of-language words in the task of multi-lingual speech
recognition.


Finite Size Scaling of Topological Entanglement Entropy

  We consider scaling of the entanglement entropy across a topological quantum
phase transition in one dimension. The change of the topology manifests itself
in a sub-leading term, which scales as $L^{-1/\alpha}$ with the size of the
subsystem $L$, here $\alpha$ is the R\'{e}nyi index. This term reveals the
universal scaling function $h_\alpha(L/\xi)$, where $\xi$ is the correlation
length, which is sensitive to the topological index.


Canonical connection on contact manifolds

  We introduce a canonical affine connection on the contact manifold $(Q,\xi)$,
which is associated to each contact triad $(Q,\lambda,J)$ where $\lambda$ is a
contact form and $J:\xi \to \xi$ is an endomorphism with $J^2 = -id$ compatible
to $d\lambda$. We call it the \emph{contact triad connection} of
$(Q,\lambda,J)$ and prove its existence and uniqueness. The connection is
canonical in that the pull-back connection $\phi^*\nabla$ of a triad connection
$\nabla$ becomes the triad connection of the pull-back triad $(Q,
\phi^*\lambda, \phi^*J)$ for any diffeomorphism $\phi:Q \to Q$ satisfying
$\phi^*\lambda = \lambda$ (sometimes called a strict contact diffeomorphism).
It also preserves both the triad metric $$ g_{(\lambda,J)} = d\lambda(\cdot,
J\cdot) + \lambda \otimes \lambda $$ and $J$ regarded as an endomorphism on $TQ
= \mathbb R\{X_\lambda\}\oplus \xi$, and is characterized by its torsion
properties and the requirement that the contact form $\lambda$ be holomorphic
in the $CR$-sense. In particular, the connection restricts to a Hermitian
connection $\nabla^\pi$ on the Hermitian vector bundle $(\xi,J,g_\xi)$ with
$g_\xi = d\lambda(\cdot, J\cdot)|_{\xi}$, which we call the \emph{contact
Hermitian connection} of $(\xi,J,g_\xi)$. These connections greatly simplify
tensorial calculations in the sequels \cite{oh-wang1}, \cite{oh-wang2}
performed in the authors' analytic study of the map $w$, called contact
instantons, which satisfy the nonlinear elliptic system of equations
$\overline{\partial}^\pi w = 0, \, d(w^*\lambda \circ j) = 0$ in the contact
triad $(Q,\lambda,J)$.


Total positivity of Riordan arrays

  We present sufficient conditions for total positivity of Riordan arrays. As
applications we show that many well-known combinatorial triangles are totally
positive and many famous combinatorial numbers are log-convex in a unified
approach.


The minimum Q-index of strongly connected bipartite digraphs with
  complete bipartite subdigraphs

  Let $\mathcal{G}_{n,p,q}$ denote the set of strongly connected bipartite
digraphs on $n$ vertices which contain a complete bipartite subdigraph
$\overleftrightarrow{K_{p,q}}$, where $p, q, n$ are positive integers and $p+q
\leq n$. In this paper, we study the Q-index (i.e. the signless Laplacian
spectral radius) of $\mathcal{G}_{n,p,q}$, and determine the extremal digraph
that has the minimum Q-index.


The unicyclic graphs with the second smallest normalized Laplacian
  eigenvalue no less than $1-\frac{\sqrt{6}}{3}$

  Let $\lambda_{2}(G)$ be the second smallest normalized Laplacian eigenvalue
of a graph $G$. In this paper, we determine all unicyclic graphs of order
$n\geq21$ with $\lambda_{2}(G)\geq 1-\frac{\sqrt{6}}{3}$. Moreover, the
unicyclic graphs with $\lambda_{2}(G)=1-\frac{\sqrt{6}}{3}$ are also
determined.


Large and moderate deviations for a $\mathbb{R}^d$-valued branching
  random walk with a random environment in time

  We consider a $\mathbb{R}^d$-valued branching random walk with a stationary
and ergodic environment $\xi=(\xi_n)$ indexed by time $n\in\mathbb{N}$. Let
$Z_n$ be the counting measure of particles of generation $n$. With help of the
uniform convergence of martingale and the multifractal analysis, we establish a
large deviation result for the measures $Z_n$ as well as a moderate deviation
principle.


LeaveNow: A Social Network-based Smart Evacuation System for Disaster
  Management

  The importance of timely response to natural disasters and evacuating
affected people to safe areas is paramount to save lives. Emergency services
are often handicapped by the amount of rescue resources at their disposal. We
present a system that leverages the power of a social network forming new
connections among people based on \textit{real-time location} and expands the
rescue resources pool by adding private sector cars. We also introduce a
car-sharing algorithm to identify safe routes in an emergency with the aim of
minimizing evacuation time, maximizing pick-up of people without cars, and
avoiding traffic congestion.


Adiabatic Regularization and Green's Function Regularization of Scalar
  Field in de Sitter Space: Positive Spectral Energy Density and No Trace
  Anomaly

  To remove the vacuum UV divergence of a quantum field in curved spacetime,
the conventional adiabatic regularization proposes to subtract the $k$-mode of
stress tensor by its 4th-order subtraction term. For a massive scalar field in
the vacuum in de Sitter space, we find that the 4th-order regularized spectral
energy density is negative, and the 2nd-order regularization for minimal
coupling $\xi=0$ and the 0th-order for conformal coupling $\xi=\frac16$ yield
positive and UV convergent spectral energy density and power spectrum. For a
massless scalar field with $\xi=0$ or $\frac16$, the regularized power spectrum
and spectral stress tensor are zero, and particularly for $\xi=\frac16$, there
is no trace anomaly which was caused by the incorrect prescription of 4th-order
regularization. For $\xi\in(0,\frac16)$, we find that there exists no
regularization of a fixed order, which could achieve positive and convergent
spectral energy density and power spectrum, so regularization remains
unsettled. For Green's function in position space, we show that the
regularization is generally plagued by a log IR divergence. For $m=0$ with
$\xi=0$ or $\frac16$ in de Sitter space, we regularize the Green's functions,
yielding vanishing results, agreeing with the zero power spectra given by
adiabatic regularization. For massive cases with $\xi=0$ or $\frac16$ in de
Sitter space, we perform Fourier transformation of the regularized power
spectra and obtainregularized Green's functions which are IR and UV convergent,
thus overcome the log IR divergence difficulty. We also show that the trace
anomaly in de Sitter space was an artifact caused by incorrect treatment of the
massless limit of the incomplete subtraction terms. In a general curved
spacetime, appropriate subtraction terms for the Green's function are unknown,
so it is invalid to claim the trace anomaly before the IR divergence difficulty
is resolved.


Global solvability and stability to a nutrient-taxis model with porous
  medium slow diffusion

  In this paper, we study a nutrient-taxis model with porous medium slow
diffusion \begin{align*} \left\{ \begin{aligned} &u_t=\Delta
u^m-\chi\nabla\cdot(u\nabla v)+\xi uv-\rho u, \\ &v_t-\Delta v=-vu+\mu v(1-v),
\end{aligned}\right. \end{align*} in a bounded domain $\Omega\subset \mathbb
R^3$ with zero-flux boundary condition. It is shown that for any
$m>\frac{11}4-\sqrt 3$,the problem admits a global weak solution for any large
initial datum. We divide the study into three cases,(i) $\xi\mu=0, \rho\ge 0$;
(ii) $\xi\mu\rho>0$; (iii) $\xi\mu>0$, $\rho=0$. In particular, for Case (i)
and Case (ii), the global solutions are uniformly bounded. Subsequently, the
large time behavior of these global bounded solutions are also discussed. At
last, we also extend the results to the coupled chemotaxis-Stokes system.
Important progresses for chemotaxis-Stokes system with $m>\frac 76$, $m>\frac
87$ and $m>\frac 98$ have been carried out respectively by \cite{W2, TW2, W3},
but leave a gap for $1<m\le \frac98$. Our result for chemotaxis-Stokes system
supplements part of the gap $(\frac{11}4-\sqrt 3, \frac 98)$. Here
$\frac{11}4-\sqrt 3\approx 1.018$.


$Ξ$(2030) and $Ξ$(2120) as $\bar{K}^*Σ$ molecular states

  In this work, the molecular states from the \bar{K}^{*}\Sigma interaction are
studied in a quasipotential Bethe-Salpeter equation approach with the
one-boson-exchange potentials. We consider the exchanges of vector (\rho,\omega
and \phi) mesons and pseudoscalar (\pi and \eta) mesons to describe the
\bar{K}^{*}\Sigma interaction with the coupling constants determined by the
SU(3) symmetry, The poles of the scattering amplitude are searched for to find
the molecular states dynamically generated from the \bar{K}^{*}\Sigma
interaction. A bound state with quantum number I(J^{p})=1/2(5/2^{+}) is
produced, which can be associated to the \Xi(2030) baryon. Other bound states
with J\le{}5/2 are also searched for and it is found that there exist bound
states with quantum numbers I(J^P)=1/2(1/2^-), 1/2(3/2^{-}), and 1/2(3/2^+).
The \Xi(2120) may be a candidate for one of these three bound states. In
addition, we also find two bound states with isospin 3/2 and spin parities
1/2^- and 1/2^+.


Asymptotics of Solutions of a Perfect Fluid Coupled with a Cosmological
  Constant in Four-Dimensional Spacetime with Toroidal Symmetry

  Asymptotics of solutions of a perfect fluid when coupled with a cosmological
constant in four-dimensional spacetime with toroidal symmetry are studied. In
particular, it is found that the problem of self-similar solutions of the first
kind for a fluid with the equation of state, $p = k \rho$, can be reduced to
solving a master equation of the form, $$ 2 F(q, k)\frac{q''(\xi)}{q'(\xi)} -
G(q,k) q'(\xi) = \frac{4}{\xi}. $$ For $k = 0$ and $k = -1/3$ the general
solutions are obtained and their main local and global properties are studied
in detail.


Experimental observation of Dirac-like surface states and topological
  phase transition in Pb$_{1-x}$Sn$_x$Te(111) films

  The surface of a topological crystalline insulator (TCI) carries an even
number of Dirac cones protected by crystalline symmetry. We epitaxially grew
high quality Pb$_{1-x}$Sn$_x$Te(111) films and investigated the TCI phase by
in-situ angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy. Pb$_{1-x}$Sn$_x$Te(111)
films undergo a topological phase transition from trivial insulator to TCI via
increasing the Sn/Pb ratio, accompanied by a crossover from n-type to p-type
doping. In addition, a hybridization gap is opened in the surface states when
the thickness of film is reduced to the two-dimensional limit. The work
demonstrates an approach to manipulating the topological properties of TCI,
which is of importance for future fundamental research and applications based
on TCI.


Antiferromagnetic Potts Models on the Square Lattice

  We study the antiferromagnetic $q$-state Potts model on the square lattice
for $q=3$ and $q=4$, using the Wang-Swendsen-Koteck\'y Monte Carlo algorithm
and a new finite-size-scaling extrapolation method. For $q=3$ we obtain good
control up to correlation length $\xi \sim 5000$; the data are consistent with
$\xi(\beta) = A e^{2\beta} \beta (1 + a_1 e^{-\beta} + \ldots)$ as
$\beta\to\infty$. For $q=4$ the model is disordered even at zero temperature.


Scalar wave propagation in topological black hole backgrounds

  We consider the evolution of a scalar field coupled to curvature in
topological black hole spacetimes. We solve numerically the scalar wave
equation with different curvature-coupling constant $\xi$ and show that a rich
spectrum of wave propagation is revealed when $\xi$ is introduced. Relations
between quasinormal modes and the size of different topological black holes
have also been investigated.


Hyperconjugative Effect on the Electronic Wavefunctions of Ethanol

  Hyperconjugation is a basic conception of chemistry. Its straightforward
effect is exhibited by the spatial delocalization characteristics of the
electron density distributions or wavefunctions. Such effects on the electron
wavefunctions of the highest-occupied molecular orbitals (HOMO) of two ethanol
conformers are demonstrated with electron momentum spectroscopy together with
natural bond orbital analyses, exhibiting the distinctly different symmetries
of the HOMO wavefunctions in momentum space.


Classification of the Super-conducting order parameters under the point
  group symmetry for a multi-band system: application to LaOFeAs

  All the possible super-conducting order parameters for the LaOFeAs system are
classified by their transformation under the complete crystal symmetry. The
general forms of the super-conducting gap functions for each class are
discussed. We find that the gap functions in such a multi-band system belong to
three types, full gap, nodal type and finite {}``Fermi arc'' type. Possible
physical consequences caused by different types of gap functions are also
discussed.


Pairwise Quantum Correlations for Superpositions of Dicke States

  Pairwise correlation is really an important property for multi-qubit states.
For the two-qubit X states extracted from Dicke states and their superposition
states, we obtain a compact expression of the quantum discord by numerical
check. We then apply the expression to discuss the quantum correlation of the
reduced two-qubit states of Dicke states and their superpositions, and the
results are compared with those obtained by entanglement of formation, which is
a quantum entanglement measure.


Resolvent and spectral measure on non-trapping asymptotically hyperbolic
  manifolds I: Resolvent construction at high energy

  This is the first in a series of papers in which we investigate the resolvent
and spectral measure on non-trapping asymptotically hyperbolic manifolds with
applications to the restriction theorem, spectral multiplier results and
Strichartz estimates. In this first paper, we use semiclassical Lagrangian
distributions and semiclassical intersecting Lagrangian distributions, along
with Mazzeo-Melrose 0-calculus, to construct the high energy resolvent on
general non- trapping asymptotically hyperbolic manifolds, generalizing the
work due to Melrose, Sa Barreto and Vasy. We note that there is an independent
work by Y. Wang which also constructs the high-energy resolvent.


Convergence of martingale and moderate deviations for a branching random
  walk with a random environment in time

  We consider a branching random walk on $\mathbb{R}$ with a stationary and
ergodic environment $\xi=(\xi_n)$ indexed by time $n\in\mathbb{N}$. Let $Z_n$
be the counting measure of particles of generation $n$ and $\tilde Z_n(t)=\int
e^{tx}Z_n(dx)$ be its Laplace transform. We show the $L^p$ convergence rate and
the uniform convergence of the martingale $\tilde Z_n(t)/\mathbb E[\tilde
Z_n(t)|\xi]$, and establish a moderate deviation principle for the measures
$Z_n$.


The Reversible Spin Switch by External Control of Interval Distance of
  CuPc and C59N with the investigation of DFT

  In this paper, we introduce a new kind of spin switch based on a joint system
of copper phthalocyanine (CuPc) and C59N. Using density functional theory, we
investigate the total magnetic moment of this system when gradually changing
the interval distance between two molecules. The spin hopping happens during
the critical distance with very low energy. This phenomenon shows a possible
reality of reversible spin switch by external control of the interval distance.
With orbital analysis and electron transfer consideration, the form of C59N+-
CuPc- ion pair support this spin hopping phenomenon.


Magnetic properties of quasi one-dimensional vanadium-benzene nanowire
  affected by gas molecules: a first-principle study

  Magnetic properties of quasi one-dimensional vanadium-benzene nanowires
(VBNW) are investigated theoretically with the absorption of gas molecules-NO
and NO2. With the increase adsorption of NO on VBNW, the phase transition from
half metal to ferromagnetic metal and last to paramagnetic semiconductor can be
observed. With the increase of NO2 on VBNW, half metallic property can be
enhanced at first and decreased later. Thus, the electronic and magnetic
properties of VBNW can be sensitive and selective to NO and NO2, revealing the
potential applications in spintronic sensors of these two kinds of molecules.


On Khintchine exponents and Lyapunov exponents of continued fractions

  Assume that $x\in [0,1) $ admits its continued fraction expansion $x=[a_1(x),
a_2(x),...]$. The Khintchine exponent $\gamma(x)$ of $x$ is defined by
$\gamma(x):=\lim\limits_{n\to \infty}\frac{1}{n}\sum_{j=1}^n \log a_j(x)$ when
the limit exists. Khintchine spectrum $\dim E_\xi$ is fully studied, where $
E_{\xi}:=\{x\in [0,1):\gamma(x)=\xi\} (\xi \geq 0)$ and $\dim$ denotes the
Hausdorff dimension. In particular, we prove the remarkable fact that the
Khintchine spectrum $\dim E_{\xi}$, as function of $\xi \in [0, +\infty)$, is
neither concave nor convex. This is a new phenomenon from the usual point of
view of multifractal analysis. Fast Khintchine exponents defined by
$\gamma^{\phi}(x):=\lim\limits_{n\to\infty}\frac{1}{\phi(n)} \sum_{j=1}^n \log
a_j(x)$ are also studied, where $\phi (n)$ tends to the infinity faster than
$n$ does. Under some regular conditions on $\phi$, it is proved that the fast
Khintchine spectrum $\dim (\{x\in [0,1]: \gamma^{\phi}(x)= \xi \}) $ is a
constant function. Our method also works for other spectra like the Lyapunov
spectrum and the fast Lyapunov spectrum.


Dissemination stability and phase noise specification of fiber-cascaded
  RF frequency dissemination

  Over the past decade, fiber based frequency dissemination has achieved
significant progresses in following aspects. To study the dissemination
stability and phase noise specifications of the fiber-cascaded RF frequency
dissemination system, we perform a lab-top experiment using three sets of RF
modulated frequency dissemination systems. They are linked by 50 km + 50 km +45
km fiber spools. The dissemination stabilities of each segments and whole
system are measured simultaneously. After that, the phase noise of each segment
is also measured and the result shows that the phase noise spectrums of
recovered frequency signal can be optimized via narrow band phase lock loop.


Non-canonical two-field inflation to order $ξ^2$

  In non-canonical two-field inflation models, deviations from the canonical
model can be captured by a parameter $\xi$. We show this parameter is usually
one half of the slow-roll order and analytically calculate the primordial power
spectra accurate to order $\xi^2$. The super-horizon perturbations are studied
with an improved method, which gives a correction of order $\xi^2$. Three
typical examples demonstrate that our analytical formulae of power spectra fit
well with numerical simulation.


Hopping Conduction in Disordered Carbon Nanotubes

  We report electrical transport measurements on individual disordered carbon
nanotubes, grown catalytically in a nanoporous anodic aluminum oxide template.
In both as-grown and annealed types of nanotubes, the low-field conductance
shows as exp[-(T_{0}/T)^{1/2}] dependence on temperature T, suggesting that
hopping conduction is the dominant transport mechanism, albeit with different
disorder-related coefficients T_{0}. The field dependence of low-temperature
conductance behaves an exp[-(xi_{0}/xi)^{1/2}] with high electric field xi at
sufficiently low T. Finally, both annealed and unannealed nanotubes exhibit
weak positive magnetoresistance at low T = 1.7 K. Comparison with theory
indicates that our data are best explained by Coulomb-gap variable range
hopping conduction and permits the extraction of disorder-dependent
localization length and dielectric constant.


