A simple regression equivalence of Pillai's trace statistic

  Derived here is a single regression coefficient equivalent to Pillai's trace
statistic in multivariate analysis of variance.


A Riemann-Hilbert Approach to the Complex Sharma-Tasso-Olver Equation on
  the Half Line

  In this paper, we use the Fokas method to analyze the complex
Sharma-Tasso-Olver(cSTO) equation on the half line. We show that it can be
represented in terms of the solution of a matrix RHP formulated in the plane of
the complex spectral parameter {\lambda}.


A Riemann-Hilbert Approach to the Kundu-Eckhaus Equation on the
  half-Line

  In this paper, we consider the initial-boundary value problem of the
Kundu-Eckhaus equation on the half-line by using of the Fokas unified transform
method. Assuming that the solution $u(x,t)$ exists, we show that it can be
expressed in terms of the unique solution of a matrix Riemann-Hilbert problem
formulated in the plane of the complex spectral parameter $\lambda$. Moreover,
we also get there exist spectral functions are not independent and they are
satisfying the so-called global relation.


The initial-boundary value problems for the coupled derivative nonlinear
  Schr√∂dinger equations on the half-line

  The unified transform method is used to analyze the initial-boundary value
problem for the coupled derivative nonlinear Schr\"odinger(CDNLS) equations on
the half-line. In this paper, we assume that the solution $u(x,t)$ and $v(x,t)$
of CDNLS equations are exists, and we show that it can be expressed in terms of
the unique solution of a matrix Riemann-Hilbert problem formulated in the plane
of the complex spectral parameter $\lambda$.


Drug Recommendation toward Safe Polypharmacy

  Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) induced from high-order drug-drug interactions
(DDIs) due to polypharmacy represent a significant public health problem. In
this paper, we formally formulate the to-avoid and safe (with respect to ADRs)
drug recommendation problems when multiple drugs have been taken
simultaneously. We develop a joint model with a recommendation component and an
ADR label prediction component to recommend for a prescription a set of
to-avoid drugs that will induce ADRs if taken together with the prescription.
We also develop real drug-drug interaction datasets and corresponding
evaluation protocols. Our experimental results on real datasets demonstrate the
strong performance of the joint model compared to other baseline methods.


Non-local spin valve interferometer: Observation of superconducting spin
  current and Aharonov-Anandan's non-adiabatic geometric phase

  An electron interferometer was designed and fabricated via a normal
metal/insulator/ferromagnet non-local lateral spin valve with a ring-shaped
normal metal/insulator spacer, and spin current interference was observed. A
very high spin signal of 200 m$\Omega$ was found in a device with 2 $\mu$m
injector-detector distance and magnetic field swept parallel to the plane. With
a perpendicular magnetic field sweep, a Hanle effect measurement showed both
spin precession and $h/e$ oscillation. Because of the non-adiabatic nature of
the precessing spins at low fields as they traverse the normal metal ring, this
is an experimental observation of Aharonov-Anandan's non-adiabatic geometric
phase. In addition, our observation of identical spin resistance for normal and
superconducting Aluminum is inconsistent with theoretical predictions based on
the quasiparticle picture. To explain the superconducting spin current we
suggest that spin triplet Cooper pairs may exist in thin films of Aluminum for
direct spin injection.


Outage Performance of AF-based Time Division Broadcasting Protocol in
  the Presence of Co-channel Interference

  In this paper, we investigate the outage performance of time division
broadcasting (TDBC) protocol in independent but non-identical Rayleigh
flat-fading channels, where all nodes are interfered by a finite number of
co-channel interferers. We assume that the relay operates in the
amplified-and-forward mode. A tight lower bound as well as the asymptotic
expression of the outage probability is obtained in closed-form. Through both
theoretic analyses and simulation results, we show that the achievable
diversity of TDBC protocol is zero in the interference-limited scenario.
Moreover, we study the impacts of interference power, number of interferers and
relay placement on the outage probability. Finally, the correctness of our
analytic results is validated via computer simulations.


A simple and efficient profile likelihood for semiparametric exponential
  family

  Semiparametric exponential family proposed by Ning et al. (2017) is an
extension of the parametric exponential family to the case with a nonparametric
base measure function. Such a distribution family has potential application in
some areas such as high dimensional data analysis. However, the methodology for
achieving the semiparametric efficiency has not been proposed in the existing
literature. In this paper, we propose a profile likelihood to efficiently
estimate both parameter and nonparametric function. Due to the use of the least
favorable curve in the procedure of profile likelihood, the semiparametric
efficiency is achieved successfully and the estimation bias is reduced
significantly. Moreover, by making the most of the structure information of the
semiparametric exponential family, the estimator of the least favorable curve
has an explicit expression. It ensures that the newly proposed profile
likelihood can be implemented and is computationally simple. Simulation studies
can illustrate that our proposal is much better than the existing methodology
for most cases under study, and is robust to the different model conditions.


Long short-term memory networks in memristor crossbars

  Recent breakthroughs in recurrent deep neural networks with long short-term
memory (LSTM) units has led to major advances in artificial intelligence.
State-of-the-art LSTM models with significantly increased complexity and a
large number of parameters, however, have a bottleneck in computing power
resulting from limited memory capacity and data communication bandwidth. Here
we demonstrate experimentally that LSTM can be implemented with a memristor
crossbar, which has a small circuit footprint to store a large number of
parameters and in-memory computing capability that circumvents the 'von Neumann
bottleneck'. We illustrate the capability of our system by solving real-world
problems in regression and classification, which shows that memristor LSTM is a
promising low-power and low-latency hardware platform for edge inference.


Discriminative Relational Topic Models

  Many scientific and engineering fields involve analyzing network data. For
document networks, relational topic models (RTMs) provide a probabilistic
generative process to describe both the link structure and document contents,
and they have shown promise on predicting network structures and discovering
latent topic representations. However, existing RTMs have limitations in both
the restricted model expressiveness and incapability of dealing with imbalanced
network data. To expand the scope and improve the inference accuracy of RTMs,
this paper presents three extensions: 1) unlike the common link likelihood with
a diagonal weight matrix that allows the-same-topic interactions only, we
generalize it to use a full weight matrix that captures all pairwise topic
interactions and is applicable to asymmetric networks; 2) instead of doing
standard Bayesian inference, we perform regularized Bayesian inference
(RegBayes) with a regularization parameter to deal with the imbalanced link
structure issue in common real networks and improve the discriminative ability
of learned latent representations; and 3) instead of doing variational
approximation with strict mean-field assumptions, we present collapsed Gibbs
sampling algorithms for the generalized relational topic models by exploring
data augmentation without making restricting assumptions. Under the generic
RegBayes framework, we carefully investigate two popular discriminative loss
functions, namely, the logistic log-loss and the max-margin hinge loss.
Experimental results on several real network datasets demonstrate the
significance of these extensions on improving the prediction performance, and
the time efficiency can be dramatically improved with a simple fast
approximation method.


Steerable sound transport in a 3D acoustic network

  Quasi-lossless and asymmetric sound transports, which are exceedingly
desirable in various modern physical systems, are almost based on nonlinear or
angular-momentum biasing effects with extremely high power levels and complex
modulation schemes. A practical route for the steerable sound transport along
any arbitrary acoustic pathway, especially in a 3D acoustic network, could
revolutionize the sound power flow and the sound communication. Here, we design
an acoustic device consisting of a regular-tetrahedral cavity with four
cylindrical waveguides. A smaller regular-tetrahedral solid in this cavity is
eccentrically emplaced to break its spatial symmetry. The numerical and
experimental results show that the sound power flow can unimpededly transport
between two waveguides away from the eccentric solid within a wide frequency
range. Furthermore, in the vicinity of eigenmode, the sound waves from various
waveguides can transport to different waveguides, respectively along the
compressed and broadened pathways without mutually interference. Endowed with
these quasi-lossless and asymmetric transport characteristics, we construct a
3D acoustic network, in which the sound power flow can flexibly propagate along
arbitrary sound pathways defined by our acoustic devices with
eccentrically-emplaced regular-tetrahedral solids.


Dark matter direct search sensitivity of the PandaX-4T experiment

  The PandaX-4T experiment, a four-ton scale dark matter direct detection
experiment, is being planned at the China Jinping Underground Laboratory. In
this paper we present a simulation study of the expected background in this
experiment. In a 2.8-ton fiducial mass and the signal region between 1 to 10
keV electron equivalent energy, the total electron recoil background is found
to be 4.9x10^{-5} /(kg day keV). The nuclear recoil background in the same
region is 2.8x10^{-7}/(kg day keV). With an exposure of 5.6 ton-years, the
sensitivity of PandaX-4T could reach a minimum spin-independent dark
matter-nucleon cross section of 6x10^{-48} cm^{2} at a dark matter mass of 40
GeV/c^{2}.


PandaX-II Constraints on Spin-Dependent WIMP-Nucleon Effective
  Interactions

  We present PandaX-II constraints on candidate WIMP-nucleon effective
interactions involving the nucleon or WIMP spin, including, in addition to
standard axial spin-dependent (SD) scattering, various couplings among vector
and axial currents, magnetic and electric dipole moments, and tensor
interactions. The data set corresponding to a total exposure of 54-ton-days is
reanalyzed to determine constraints as a function of the WIMP mass and isospin
coupling. We obtain WIMP-nucleon cross section bounds of $\rm 1.6 \times
10^{-41} cm^2$ and $\rm 9.0 \times 10^{-42} cm^2$ ($90\%$ c.l.) for
neutron-only SD and tensor coupling, respectively, for a mass $M_\mathrm{WIMP}
\sim {\rm 40~GeV}/c^2$. The SD limits are the best currently available for
$M_\mathrm{WIMP} > {\rm 40~GeV}/c^2$. We show that PandaX-II has reached a
sensitivity sufficient to probe a variety of other candidate spin-dependent
interactions at the weak scale.


The high-speed after pulse measurement system for PMT

  A system employing a desktop FADC has been developed to investigate the
features of 8 inches Hamamatsu PMT. The system stands out for its high-speed
and informative results as a consequence of adopting fast waveform sampling
technology. Recording full waveforms allows us to perform digital signal
processing, pulse shape analysis, and precision timing extraction. High
precision after pulse time and charge distribution characteristics are
presented in this manuscript. Other photomultipliers characteristics, such as
dark rate and transit time spread, can also be obtained by exploiting waveform
analysis using this system.


Trust from the past: Bayesian Personalized Ranking based Link Prediction
  in Knowledge Graphs

  Link prediction, or predicting the likelihood of a link in a knowledge graph
based on its existing state is a key research task. It differs from a
traditional link prediction task in that the links in a knowledge graph are
categorized into different predicates and the link prediction performance of
different predicates in a knowledge graph generally varies widely. In this
work, we propose a latent feature embedding based link prediction model which
considers the prediction task for each predicate disjointly. To learn the model
parameters it utilizes a Bayesian personalized ranking based optimization
technique. Experimental results on large-scale knowledge bases such as YAGO2
show that our link prediction approach achieves substantially higher
performance than several state-of-art approaches. We also show that for a given
predicate the topological properties of the knowledge graph induced by the
given predicate edges are key indicators of the link prediction performance of
that predicate in the knowledge graph.


Induced robust topological order on an ordinary insulator
  hetero-structured with a strong topological insulator

  Topological states of matter originate from distinct topological electronic
structures of materials. As for strong topological insulators (STIs), the
topological surface (interface) is a direct consequence of electronic structure
transition between materials categorized to different topological genus.
Therefore, it is fundamentally interesting if such topological character can be
manipulated. Besides tuning the crystal field and the strength of spin-orbital
coupling (e.g., by external strain, or chemical doping), there is currently
rare report on topological state induced in ordinary insulators (OIs) by the
heterostructure of OI/STI. Here we report the observation of a Dirac cone
topological surface state (TSS) induced on the Sb2Se3 layer up to 15 nm thick
in the OI/STI heterostructure, in sharp contrast with the OI/OI heterostructure
where no sign of TSS can be observed. This is evident for an induced
topological state in an OI by heterostructure.


Drug Selection via Joint Push and Learning to Rank

  Selecting the right drugs for the right patients is a primary goal of
precision medicine. In this manuscript, we consider the problem of cancer drug
selection in a learning-to-rank framework. We have formulated the cancer drug
selection problem as to accurately predicting 1). the ranking positions of
sensitive drugs and 2). the ranking orders among sensitive drugs in cancer cell
lines based on their responses to cancer drugs. We have developed a new
learning-to-rank method, denoted as pLETORg , that predicts drug ranking
structures in each cell line via using drug latent vectors and cell line latent
vectors. The pLETORg method learns such latent vectors through explicitly
enforcing that, in the drug ranking list of each cell line, the sensitive drugs
are pushed above insensitive drugs, and meanwhile the ranking orders among
sensitive drugs are correct. Genomics information on cell lines is leveraged in
learning the latent vectors. Our experimental results on a benchmark cell
line-drug response dataset demonstrate that the new pLETORg significantly
outperforms the state-of-the-art method in prioritizing new sensitive drugs.


Drug-drug interaction prediction based on co-medication patterns and
  graph matching

  Background: The problem of predicting whether a drug combination of arbitrary
orders is likely to induce adverse drug reactions is considered in this
manuscript. Methods: Novel kernels over drug combinations of arbitrary orders
are developed within support vector machines for the prediction. Graph matching
methods are used in the novel kernels to measure the similarities among drug
combinations, in which drug co-medication patterns are leveraged to measure
single drug similarities. Results: The experimental results on a real-world
dataset demonstrated that the new kernels achieve an area under the curve (AUC)
value 0.912 for the prediction problem. Conclusions: The new methods with drug
co-medication based single drug similarities can accurately predict whether a
drug combination is likely to induce adverse drug reactions of interest.
  Keywords: drug-drug interaction prediction; drug combination similarity;
co-medication; graph matching


Observation of topological edge states of sound at a momentum away from
  the high-symmetry point

  Topologically protected one-way transportation of sound, mimicking the
topological properties of the condensed matter, has received greatly
attentions. Thus far, the topological phases and the topological edge states of
sound are yielded in the vicinity of the Dirac cones fixed at the high
symmetric points of the Brillouin zone. Here, we present a new type of the
phononic topological insulator in the square lattice with position-variational
Dirac cones along the high symmetric lines. The emergence of such Dirac cones,
characterized by the vortex structure in a momentum space, is attributed to the
unavoidable band crossing protected by the mirror symmetry. By rotating the
square columns, these Dirac points are lifted and a complete band gap is
induced because of the mirror-symmetry-breaking. Along the topological domain
wall between the phononic crystals (PhCs) with the distinct topological phases
stemming from the mirror symmetry inversion, we obtain a topological edge state
for the neutral scalar sound which is absence of the intrinsic polarization and
is uncoupled from an external field. Within a wide rotational range of the
square column, the topological edge state in our PhCs evolves from a gapless
one into a gapped one with a robust edge transport against cavities and
disorders. Our excellent results are promising for the exploration of the new
topological phenomena in the PhCs beyond the hexagonal lattices. Furthermore,
the flexibility of the rotational square columns provides an interesting
platform for the design of tunable topological acoustic devices.


Performance Analysis of the Matrix Pair Beamformer with Matrix Mismatch

  Matrix pair beamformer (MPB) is a blind beamformer. It exploits the temporal
structure of the signal of interest (SOI) and applies generalized
eigen-decomposition to a covariance matrix pair. Unlike other blind algorithms,
it only uses the second order statistics. A key assumption in the previous work
is that the two matrices have the same interference statistics. However, this
assumption may be invalid in the presence of multipath propagations or certain
"smart" jammers, and we call it as matrix mismatch. This paper analyzes the
performance of MPB with matrix mismatch. First, we propose a general framework
that covers the existing schemes. Then, we derive its normalized output SINR.
It reveals that the matrix mismatch leads to a threshold effect caused by
"steering vector competition". Second, using matrix perturbation theory, we
find that, if there are generalized eigenvalues that are infinite, the
threshold will increase unboundedly with the interference power. This is highly
probable when there are multiple periodical interferers. Finally, we present
simulation results to verify our analysis.


Phylogenomic Analyses of Large-scale Nuclear Genes Provide New Insights
  into the Evolutionary Relationships within the Rosids

  The Rosids is one of the largest groups of flowering plants, with 140
families and ~70,000 species. Previous phylogenetic studies of the rosids have
primarily utilized organelle genes that likely differ in evolutionary histories
from nuclear genes. To better understand the evolutionary history of rosids, it
is necessary to investigate their phylogenetic relationships using nuclear
genes. Here, we employed large-scale phylogenomic datasets composed of nuclear
genes, including 891 clusters of putative orthologous genes. Combined with
comprehensive taxon sampling covering 63 species representing 14 out of the 17
orders, we reconstructed the rosids phylogeny with coalescence and
concatenation methods, yielding similar tree topologies from all datasets.
However, these topologies did not agree on the placement of Zygophyllales.
Through comprehensive analyses, we found that missing data and gene tree
heterogeneity were potential factors that may mislead concatenation methods, in
particular, large amounts of missing data under high gene tree heterogeneity.
Our results provided new insights into the deep phylogenetic relationships of
the rosids, and demonstrated that coalescence methods may effectively resolve
the phylogenetic relationships of the rosids with missing data under high gene
tree heterogeneity.


The study of the aging behavior on large area MCP-PMT

  Aging experiments of a novel type of large area MCP-PMT made by JUNO
collaboration were conducted.In these aging experiments, the
multi-photoelectron spectrum and single photoelectron spectrum were measured
daily,as well as the MCP resistance of the second PMT before and after the
experiment. Two PMTs were aged successivelyfor cross check. The first PMT was
aged for 52 days, while the other one was aged for 84 days. In order to study
the mechanism of the aging process, the high voltage on the second PMT was
increased to accelerate its aging process when the cumulative output of charge
from its anode was about 4 C. From our study, it can be known that large area
MCP-PMT aging had a strong relationship with the related MCPs. In accordance
with the PMT aging curve,a PMT aging model was setup and a general aging
formula was given.


Iterative Eigenvalue Decomposition and Multipath-Grouping Tx/Rx Joint
  Beamforming for Millimeter-Wave Communication

  We investigate Tx/Rx joint beamforming in millimeter-wave communications
(MMWC). As the multipath components (MPCs) have different steering angles and
independent fadings, beamforming aims at achieving array gain as well as
diversity gain in this scenario. A sub-optimal beamforming scheme is proposed
to find the antenna weight vectors (AWVs) at Tx/Rx via iterative eigenvalue
decomposition (EVD), provided that full channel state information (CSI) is
available at both the transmitter and receiver. To make this scheme practically
feasible in MMWC, a corresponding training approach is suggested to avoid the
channel estimation and iterative EVD computation. As in fast fading scenario
the training approach may be time-consuming due to frequent training, another
beamforming scheme, which exploits the quasi-static steering angles in MMWC, is
proposed to reduce the overhead and increase the system reliability by
multipath grouping (MPG). The scheme first groups the MPCs and then
concurrently beamforms towards multiple steering angles of the grouped MPCs, so
that both array gain and diversity gain are achieved. Performance comparisons
show that, compared with the corresponding state-of-the-art schemes, the
iterative EVD scheme with the training approach achieves the same performance
with a reduced overhead and complexity, while the MPG scheme achieves better
performance with an approximately equivalent complexity.


Grade Prediction with Temporal Course-wise Influence

  There is a critical need to develop new educational technology applications
that analyze the data collected by universities to ensure that students
graduate in a timely fashion (4 to 6 years); and they are well prepared for
jobs in their respective fields of study. In this paper, we present a novel
approach for analyzing historical educational records from a large, public
university to perform next-term grade prediction; i.e., to estimate the grades
that a student will get in a course that he/she will enroll in the next term.
Accurate next-term grade prediction holds the promise for better student degree
planning, personalized advising and automated interventions to ensure that
students stay on track in their chosen degree program and graduate on time. We
present a factorization-based approach called Matrix Factorization with
Temporal Course-wise Influence that incorporates course-wise influence effects
and temporal effects for grade prediction. In this model, students and courses
are represented in a latent "knowledge" space. The grade of a student on a
course is modeled as the similarity of their latent representation in the
"knowledge" space. Course-wise influence is considered as an additional factor
in the grade prediction. Our experimental results show that the proposed method
outperforms several baseline approaches and infer meaningful patterns between
pairs of courses within academic programs.


ALE: Additive Latent Effect Models for Grade Prediction

  The past decade has seen a growth in the development and deployment of
educational technologies for assisting college-going students in choosing
majors, selecting courses and acquiring feedback based on past academic
performance. Grade prediction methods seek to estimate a grade that a student
may achieve in a course that she may take in the future (e.g., next term).
Accurate and timely prediction of students' academic grades is important for
developing effective degree planners and early warning systems, and ultimately
improving educational outcomes. Existing grade pre- diction methods mostly
focus on modeling the knowledge components associated with each course and
student, and often overlook other factors such as the difficulty of each
knowledge component, course instructors, student interest, capabilities and
effort. In this paper, we propose additive latent effect models that
incorporate these factors to predict the student next-term grades.
Specifically, the proposed models take into account four factors: (i) student's
academic level, (ii) course instructors, (iii) student global latent factor,
and (iv) latent knowledge factors. We compared the new models with several
state-of-the-art methods on students of various characteristics (e.g., whether
a student transferred in or not). The experimental results demonstrate that the
proposed methods significantly outperform the baselines on grade prediction
problem. Moreover, we perform a thorough analysis on the importance of
different factors and how these factors can practically assist students in
course selection, and finally improve their academic performance.


Delay Outage Probability of Multi-relay Selection for Mobile Relay Edge
  Computing Systems

  In this paper, we deal with the problem of relay selection in mobile edge
computing networks, where a source node transmits a computation-intensive task
to a destination via the aid of multiple relay nodes. It differs from the
traditional relay nodes in the way that each relay node is equipped with an
edge computing server, thus each relay node can execute the received task and
forwards the computed result to the destination. Accordingly, we define a delay
outage probability to evaluate the impact of the relay computing ability on the
link communications, and then propose a latency-best relay selection (LBRS)
scheme that not only consider the communication capability, but also consider
the computing ability. The performance of the proposed relay selection scheme
with the traditional communication-only relay selection (CORS) and
computing-only selection (CPORS) schemes in terms of the delay outage
probability and the diversity order is analyzed, compared with other relay
selection schemes. We show that the proposed LBRS scheme reduces to the
traditional CORS scheme under the high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) region. We
further reveal that the diversity orders of both the proposed LBRS and CORS
schemes are dependent on the computing ability of relay nodes.


Deterministic entanglement swapping in a superconducting circuit

  Entanglement swapping allows two particles that have never been coupled
directly or indirectly to be nonlocally correlated. Besides fundamental
interest, this procedure has applications in complex entanglement manipulation
and quantum communication. Entanglement swapping for qubits has been
demonstrated in optical experiments, but where the process was conditional on
detection of preset photon coincidence events, which succeeded with only a
small probability. Here we report an unconditional entanglement swapping
experiment with superconducting qubits. Using controllable qubit-qubit
couplings mediated by a resonator, we prepare two highly entangled qubit pairs
and then perform the Bell state measurement on two qubits coming from different
entangled pairs, projecting the remaining two qubits to one of four Bell
states. The measured concurrences for these Bell states are above
0.75,demonstrating the quantum nature of entanglement swapping. With this
setup, we further demonstrate delayed-choice entanglement swapping, confirming
whether two qubits behaved as in an entangled state or as in a separate state
is determined by a later choice of the type of measurement on their partners.
This is the first demonstration of entanglement-separability duality in a
deterministic way, closing the detection loophole the previous experiments
suffer from.


Introduction of the CDEX experiment

  Weakly Interacting Massive Particles (WIMPs) are the candidates of dark
matter in our universe. Up to now any direct interaction of WIMP with nuclei
has not been observed yet. The exclusion limits of the spin-independent cross
section of WIMP-nucleon which have been experimentally obtained is about
10^{-7}pb at high mass region and only 10^{-5}pb} at low mass region. China
Jin-Ping underground laboratory CJPL is the deepest underground lab in the
world and provides a very promising environment for direct observation of dark
matter. The China Dark Matter Experiment (CDEX) experiment is going to directly
detect the WIMP flux with high sensitivity in the low mass region. Both CJPL
and CDEX have achieved a remarkable progress in recent two years. The CDEX
employs a point-contact germanium semi-conductor detector PCGe whose detection
threshold is less than 300 eV. We report the measurement results of Muon flux,
monitoring of radioactivity and Radon concentration carried out in CJPL, as
well describe the structure and performance of the 1 kg PCGe detector CDEX-1
and 10kg detector array CDEX-10 including the detectors, electronics, shielding
and cooling systems. Finally we discuss the physics goals of the CDEX-1,
CDEX-10 and the future CDEX-1T detectors.


Study of the material photon and electron background and the liquid
  argon detector veto efficiency of the CDEX-10 experiment

  The China Dark Matter Experiment (CDEX) is located at the China Jinping
underground laboratory (CJPL) and aims to directly detect the WIMP flux with
high sensitivity in the low mass region. Here we present a study of the
predicted photon and electron backgrounds including the background contribution
of the structure materials of the germanium detector, the passive shielding
materials, and the intrinsic radioactivity of the liquid argon that serves as
an anti-Compton active shielding detector. A detailed geometry is modeled and
the background contribution has been simulated based on the measured
radioactivities of all possible components within the GEANT4 program. Then the
photon and electron background level in the energy region of interest (<10^-2
events kg-1 day-1 keV-1 (cpkkd)) is predicted based on Monte Carlo simulations.
The simulated result is consistent with the design goal of CDEX-10 experiment,
0.1 cpkkd, which shows that the active and passive shield design of CDEX-10 is
effective and feasible.


Spectral measurement of electron antineutrino oscillation amplitude and
  frequency at Daya Bay

  A measurement of the energy dependence of antineutrino disappearance at the
Daya Bay Reactor Neutrino Experiment is reported. Electron antineutrinos
($\overline{\nu}_{e}$) from six $2.9$ GW$_{\rm th}$ reactors were detected with
six detectors deployed in two near (effective baselines 512 m and 561 m) and
one far (1579 m) underground experimental halls. Using 217 days of data, 41589
(203809 and 92912) antineutrino candidates were detected in the far hall (near
halls). An improved measurement of the oscillation amplitude
$\sin^{2}2\theta_{13} = 0.090^{+0.008}_{-0.009} $ and the first direct
measurement of the $\overline{\nu}_{e}$ mass-squared difference $|\Delta
m^{2}_{ee}|= (2.59_{-0.20}^{+0.19}) \times 10^{-3}\ {\rm eV}^2 $ is obtained
using the observed $\overline{\nu}_{e}$ rates and energy spectra in a
three-neutrino framework.
  This value of $|\Delta m^{2}_{ee}|$ is consistent with $|\Delta
m^{2}_{\mu\mu}|$ measured by muon neutrino disappearance, supporting the
three-flavor oscillation model.


A new measurement of antineutrino oscillation with the full detector
  configuration at Daya Bay

  We report a new measurement of electron antineutrino disappearance using the
fully-constructed Daya Bay Reactor Neutrino Experiment. The final two of eight
antineutrino detectors were installed in the summer of 2012. Including the 404
days of data collected from October 2012 to November 2013 resulted in a total
exposure of 6.9$\times$10$^5$ GW$_{\rm th}$-ton-days, a 3.6 times increase over
our previous results. Improvements in energy calibration limited variations
between detectors to 0.2%. Removal of six $^{241}$Am-$^{13}$C radioactive
calibration sources reduced the background by a factor of two for the detectors
in the experimental hall furthest from the reactors. Direct prediction of the
antineutrino signal in the far detectors based on the measurements in the near
detectors explicitly minimized the dependence of the measurement on models of
reactor antineutrino emission. The uncertainties in our estimates of
$\sin^{2}2\theta_{13}$ and $|\Delta m^2_{ee}|$ were halved as a result of these
improvements. Analysis of the relative antineutrino rates and energy spectra
between detectors gave $\sin^{2}2\theta_{13} = 0.084\pm0.005$ and $|\Delta
m^{2}_{ee}|= (2.42\pm0.11) \times 10^{-3}$ eV$^2$ in the three-neutrino
framework.


Independent Measurement of Theta13 via Neutron Capture on Hydrogen at
  Daya Bay

  A new measurement of the $\theta_{13}$ mixing angle has been obtained at the
Daya Bay Reactor Neutrino Experiment via the detection of inverse beta decays
tagged by neutron capture on hydrogen. The antineutrino events for hydrogen
capture are distinct from those for gadolinium capture with largely different
systematic uncertainties, allowing a determination independent of the
gadolinium-capture result and an improvement on the precision of $\theta_{13}$
measurement. With a 217-day antineutrino data set obtained with six
antineutrino detectors and from six 2.9 GW$_{th}$ reactors, the rate deficit
observed at the far hall is interpreted as $\sin^22\theta_{13}=0.083\pm0.018$
in the three-flavor oscillation model. When combined with the
gadolinium-capture result from Daya Bay, we obtain
$\sin^22\theta_{13}=0.089\pm0.008$ as the final result for the
six-antineutrino-detector configuration of the Daya Bay experiment.


Search for a Light Sterile Neutrino at Daya Bay

  A search for light sterile neutrino mixing was performed with the first 217
days of data from the Daya Bay Reactor Antineutrino Experiment. The
experiment's unique configuration of multiple baselines from six 2.9~GW$_{\rm
th}$ nuclear reactors to six antineutrino detectors deployed in two near
(effective baselines 512~m and 561~m) and one far (1579~m) underground
experimental halls makes it possible to test for oscillations to a fourth
(sterile) neutrino in the $10^{\rm -3}~{\rm eV}^{2} < |\Delta m_{41}^{2}| <
0.3~{\rm eV}^{2}$ range. The relative spectral distortion due to electron
antineutrino disappearance was found to be consistent with that of the
three-flavor oscillation model. The derived limits on $\sin^22\theta_{14}$
cover the $10^{-3}~{\rm eV}^{2} \lesssim |\Delta m^{2}_{41}| \lesssim 0.1~{\rm
eV}^{2}$ region, which was largely unexplored.


Measurement of the Reactor Antineutrino Flux and Spectrum at Daya Bay

  This Letter reports a measurement of the flux and energy spectrum of electron
antineutrinos from six 2.9~GW$_{th}$ nuclear reactors with six detectors
deployed in two near (effective baselines 512~m and 561~m) and one far
(1,579~m) underground experimental halls in the Daya Bay experiment. Using 217
days of data, 296,721 and 41,589 inverse beta decay (IBD) candidates were
detected in the near and far halls, respectively. The measured IBD yield is
(1.55 $\pm$ 0.04) $\times$ 10$^{-18}$~cm$^2$/GW/day or (5.92 $\pm$ 0.14)
$\times$ 10$^{-43}$~cm$^2$/fission. This flux measurement is consistent with
previous short-baseline reactor antineutrino experiments and is $0.946\pm0.022$
($0.991\pm0.023$) relative to the flux predicted with the Huber+Mueller
(ILL+Vogel) fissile antineutrino model. The measured IBD positron energy
spectrum deviates from both spectral predictions by more than 2$\sigma$ over
the full energy range with a local significance of up to $\sim$4$\sigma$
between 4-6 MeV. A reactor antineutrino spectrum of IBD reactions is extracted
from the measured positron energy spectrum for model-independent predictions.


New measurement of $Œ∏_{13}$ via neutron capture on hydrogen at Daya
  Bay

  This article reports an improved independent measurement of neutrino mixing
angle $\theta_{13}$ at the Daya Bay Reactor Neutrino Experiment. Electron
antineutrinos were identified by inverse $\beta$-decays with the emitted
neutron captured by hydrogen, yielding a data-set with principally distinct
uncertainties from that with neutrons captured by gadolinium. With the final
two of eight antineutrino detectors installed, this study used 621 days of data
including the previously reported 217-day data set with six detectors. The
dominant statistical uncertainty was reduced by 49%. Intensive studies of the
cosmogenic muon-induced $^9$Li and fast neutron backgrounds and the
neutron-capture energy selection efficiency, resulted in a reduction of the
systematic uncertainty by 26%. The deficit in the detected number of
antineutrinos at the far detectors relative to the expected number based on the
near detectors yielded $\sin^22\theta_{13} = 0.071 \pm 0.011$ in the
three-neutrino-oscillation framework. The combination of this result with the
gadolinium-capture result is also reported.


Improved Search for a Light Sterile Neutrino with the Full Configuration
  of the Daya Bay Experiment

  This Letter reports an improved search for light sterile neutrino mixing in
the electron antineutrino disappearance channel with the full configuration of
the Daya Bay Reactor Neutrino Experiment. With an additional 404 days of data
collected in eight antineutrino detectors, this search benefits from 3.6 times
the statistics available to the previous publication, as well as from
improvements in energy calibration and background reduction. A relative
comparison of the rate and energy spectrum of reactor antineutrinos in the
three experimental halls yields no evidence of sterile neutrino mixing in the
$2\times10^{-4} \lesssim |\Delta m^{2}_{41}| \lesssim 0.3$ eV$^{2}$ mass range.
The resulting limits on $\sin^{2}2\theta_{14}$ are improved by approximately a
factor of 2 over previous results and constitute the most stringent constraints
to date in the $|\Delta m^{2}_{41}| \lesssim 0.2$ eV$^{2}$ region.


Improved Measurement of the Reactor Antineutrino Flux and Spectrum at
  Daya Bay

  A new measurement of the reactor antineutrino flux and energy spectrum by the
Daya Bay reactor neutrino experiment is reported. The antineutrinos were
generated by six 2.9~GW$_{\mathrm{th}}$ nuclear reactors and detected by eight
antineutrino detectors deployed in two near (560~m and 600~m flux-weighted
baselines) and one far (1640~m flux-weighted baseline) underground experimental
halls. With 621 days of data, more than 1.2 million inverse beta decay (IBD)
candidates were detected. The IBD yield in the eight detectors was measured,
and the ratio of measured to predicted flux was found to be $0.946\pm0.020$
($0.992\pm0.021$) for the Huber+Mueller (ILL+Vogel) model. A 2.9~$\sigma$
deviation was found in the measured IBD positron energy spectrum compared to
the predictions. In particular, an excess of events in the region of 4-6~MeV
was found in the measured spectrum, with a local significance of 4.4~$\sigma$.
A reactor antineutrino spectrum weighted by the IBD cross section is extracted
for model-independent predictions.


Study of the wave packet treatment of neutrino oscillation at Daya Bay

  The disappearance of reactor $\bar{\nu}_e$ observed by the Daya Bay
experiment is examined in the framework of a model in which the neutrino is
described by a wave packet with a relative intrinsic momentum dispersion
$\sigma_\text{rel}$. Three pairs of nuclear reactors and eight antineutrino
detectors, each with good energy resolution, distributed among three
experimental halls, supply a high-statistics sample of $\bar{\nu}_e$ acquired
at nine different baselines. This provides a unique platform to test the
effects which arise from the wave packet treatment of neutrino oscillation. The
modified survival probability formula was used to fit Daya Bay data, providing
the first experimental limits: $2.38 \cdot 10^{-17} < \sigma_{\rm rel} < 0.23$.
Treating the dimensions of the reactor cores and detectors as constraints, the
limits are improved: $10^{-14} \lesssim \sigma_{\rm rel} < 0.23$, and an upper
limit of $\sigma_{\rm rel} <0.20$ is obtained. All limits correspond to a 95\%
C.L. Furthermore, the effect due to the wave packet nature of neutrino
oscillation is found to be insignificant for reactor antineutrinos detected by
the Daya Bay experiment thus ensuring an unbiased measurement of the
oscillation parameters $\sin^22\theta_{13}$ and $\Delta m^2_{32}$ within the
plane wave model.


Measurement of electron antineutrino oscillation based on 1230 days of
  operation of the Daya Bay experiment

  A measurement of electron antineutrino oscillation by the Daya Bay Reactor
Neutrino Experiment is described in detail. Six 2.9-GW$_{\rm
  th}$ nuclear power reactors of the Daya Bay and Ling Ao nuclear power
facilities served as intense sources of $\overline{\nu}_{e}$'s. Comparison of
the $\overline{\nu}_{e}$ rate and energy spectrum measured by antineutrino
detectors far from the nuclear reactors ($\sim$1500-1950 m) relative to
detectors near the reactors ($\sim$350-600 m) allowed a precise measurement of
$\overline{\nu}_{e}$ disappearance. More than 2.5 million $\overline{\nu}_{e}$
inverse beta decay interactions were observed, based on the combination of 217
days of operation of six antineutrino detectors (Dec. 2011--Jul. 2012) with a
subsequent 1013 days using the complete configuration of eight detectors (Oct.
2012--Jul. 2015). The $\overline{\nu}_{e}$ rate observed at the far detectors
relative to the near detectors showed a significant deficit, $R=0.949 \pm
0.002(\mathrm{stat.}) \pm 0.002(\mathrm{syst.})$. The energy dependence of
$\overline{\nu}_{e}$ disappearance showed the distinct variation predicted by
neutrino oscillation. Analysis using an approximation for the three-flavor
oscillation probability yielded the flavor-mixing angle
$\sin^22\theta_{13}=0.0841 \pm 0.0027(\mathrm{stat.}) \pm
0.0019(\mathrm{syst.})$ and the effective neutrino mass-squared difference of
$\left|{\Delta}m^2_{\mathrm{ee}}\right|=(2.50 \pm 0.06(\mathrm{stat.}) \pm
0.06(\mathrm{syst.})) \times 10^{-3}\ {\rm eV}^2$. Analysis using the exact
three-flavor probability found ${\Delta}m^2_{32}=(2.45 \pm 0.06(\mathrm{stat.})
\pm 0.06(\mathrm{syst.})) \times 10^{-3}\ {\rm eV}^2$ assuming the normal
neutrino mass hierarchy and ${\Delta}m^2_{32}=(-2.56 \pm 0.06(\mathrm{stat.})
\pm 0.06(\mathrm{syst.})) \times 10^{-3}\ {\rm eV}^2$ for the inverted
hierarchy.


Measurement of the branching fraction for $œà(3770) \to
  Œ≥œá_{c0}$

  By analyzing a data set of 2.92 fb$^{-1}$ of $e^+e^-$ collision data taken at
$\sqrt s= 3.773~\rm GeV$ and 106.41$\times 10^{6}$ $\psi(3686)$ decays taken at
$\sqrt s= 3.686~\rm GeV$ with the BESIII detector at the BEPCII collider, we
measure the branching fraction and the partial decay width for
$\psi(3770)\to\gamma\chi_{c0}$ to be ${\mathcal
B}(\psi(3770)\to\gamma\chi_{c0})=(6.88\pm0.28\pm0.67)\times 10^{-3}$ and
$\Gamma[\psi(3770)\to\gamma\chi_{c0}]=(187\pm8\pm19)~\rm keV$, respectively.
These are the most precise measurements to date.


Measurements of absolute hadronic branching fractions of
  $Œõ_{c}^{+}$ baryon

  Using $567\rm{pb}^{-1}$ of $e^+e^-$ collisions recorded at
$\sqrt{s}=4.599\rm{GeV}$ with the BESIII detector, we report first measurements
of absolute hadronic branching fractions of Cabibbo-favored decays of the
$\Lambda_{c}^{+}$ baryon with a double-tag technique. A global least-square
fitter is utilized to improve the measured precision. Among the measurements
for twelve $\Lambda_{c}^{+}$ decay modes, the branching fraction for
$\Lambda_{c}^{+} \rightarrow pK^-\pi^+$ is determined to be
$(5.84\pm0.27\pm0.23)\%$, where the first uncertainty is statistical and the
second is systematic. In addition, the measurements of the branching fractions
of the other eleven Cabbibo-favored hadronic decay modes are significantly
improved.


Measurement of the center-of-mass energies at BESIII via the di-muon
  process

  From 2011 to 2014, the BESIII experiment collected about 5 fb$^{-1}$ data at
center-of-mass energies around 4 GeV for the studies of the charmonium-like and
higher excited charmonium states. By analyzing the di-muon process
$e^{+}e^{-}\rightarrow\gamma_{\rm ISR/FSR}\mu^{+}\mu^{-}$, the center-of-mass
energies of the data samples are measured with a precision of 0.8 MeV. The
center-of-mass energy is found to be stable for most of time during the data
taking.


Determination of the number of $J/œà$ events with inclusive $J/œà$
  decays

  A measurement of the number of $J/\psi$ events collected with the BESIII
detector in 2009 and 2012 is performed using inclusive decays of the $J/\psi$ .
The number of $J/\psi$ events taken in 2009 is recalculated to be
$(223.7\pm1.4)\times 10^6$, which is in good agreement with the previous
measurement, but with significantly improved precision due to improvements in
the BESIII software. The number of $J/\psi$ events taken in 2012 is determined
to be $(1086.9\pm 6.0)\times 10^6$. In total, the number of $J/\psi$ events
collected with the BESIII detector is measured to be $(1310.6\pm 7.0)\times
10^6$, where the uncertainty is dominated by systematic effects and the
statistical uncertainty is negligible.


The CDEX-1 1 kg Point-Contact Germanium Detector for Low Mass Dark
  Matter Searches

  The CDEX Collaboration has been established for direct detection of light
dark matter particles, using ultra-low energy threshold p-type point-contact
germanium detectors, in China JinPing underground Laboratory (CJPL). The first
1 kg point-contact germanium detector with a sub-keV energy threshold has been
tested in a passive shielding system located in CJPL. The outputs from both the
point-contact p+ electrode and the outside n+ electrode make it possible to
scan the lower energy range of less than 1 keV and at the same time to detect
the higher energy range up to 3 MeV. The outputs from both p+ and n+ electrode
may also provide a more powerful method for signal discrimination for dark
matter experiment. Some key parameters, including energy resolution, dead time,
decay times of internal X-rays, and system stability, have been tested and
measured. The results show that the 1 kg point-contact germanium detector,
together with its shielding system and electronics, can run smoothly with good
performances. This detector system will be deployed for dark matter search
experiments.


nEXO Pre-Conceptual Design Report

  The projected performance and detector configuration of nEXO are described in
this pre-Conceptual Design Report (pCDR). nEXO is a tonne-scale neutrinoless
double beta ($0\nu\beta\beta$) decay search in $^{136}$Xe, based on the
ultra-low background liquid xenon technology validated by EXO-200. With
$\simeq$ 5000 kg of xenon enriched to 90% in the isotope 136, nEXO has a
projected half-life sensitivity of approximately $10^{28}$ years. This
represents an improvement in sensitivity of about two orders of magnitude with
respect to current results. Based on the experience gained from EXO-200 and the
effectiveness of xenon purification techniques, we expect the background to be
dominated by external sources of radiation. The sensitivity increase is,
therefore, entirely derived from the increase of active mass in a monolithic
and homogeneous detector, along with some technical advances perfected in the
course of a dedicated R&D program. Hence the risk which is inherent to the
construction of a large, ultra-low background detector is reduced, as the
intrinsic radioactive contamination requirements are generally not beyond those
demonstrated with the present generation $0\nu\beta\beta$ decay experiments.
Indeed, most of the required materials have been already assayed or reasonable
estimates of their properties are at hand. The details described herein
represent the base design of the detector configuration as of early 2018. Where
potential design improvements are possible, alternatives are discussed.
  This design for nEXO presents a compelling path towards a next generation
search for $0\nu\beta\beta$, with a substantial possibility to discover physics
beyond the Standard Model.


VUV-sensitive Silicon Photomultipliers for Xenon Scintillation Light
  Detection in nEXO

  Future tonne-scale liquefied noble gas detectors depend on efficient light
detection in the VUV range. In the past years Silicon Photomultipliers (SiPMs)
have emerged as a valid alternative to standard photomultiplier tubes or large
area avalanche photodiodes. The next generation double beta decay experiment,
nEXO, with a 5 tonne liquid xenon time projection chamber, will use SiPMs for
detecting the $178\,\text{nm}$ xenon scintillation light, in order to achieve
an energy resolution of $\sigma / Q_{\beta\beta} = 1\, \%$. This paper presents
recent measurements of the VUV-HD generation SiPMs from Fondazione Bruno
Kessler in two complementary setups. It includes measurements of the photon
detection efficiency with gaseous xenon scintillation light in a vacuum setup
and dark measurements in a dry nitrogen gas setup. We report improved photon
detection efficiency at $175\,\text{nm}$ compared to previous generation
devices, that would meet the criteria of nEXO. Furthermore, we present the
projected nEXO detector light collection and energy resolution that could be
achieved by using these SiPMs.


Imaging individual barium atoms in solid xenon for barium tagging in
  nEXO

  The search for neutrinoless double beta decay probes the fundamental
properties of neutrinos, including whether or not the neutrino and antineutrino
are distinct. Double beta detectors are large and expensive, so background
reduction is essential for extracting the highest sensitivity. The
identification, or 'tagging', of the $^{136}$Ba daughter atom from double beta
decay of $^{136}$Xe provides a technique for eliminating backgrounds in the
nEXO neutrinoless double beta decay experiment. The tagging scheme studied in
this work utilizes a cryogenic probe to trap the barium atom in solid xenon,
where the barium atom is tagged via fluorescence imaging in the solid xenon
matrix. Here we demonstrate imaging and counting of individual atoms of barium
in solid xenon by scanning a focused laser across a solid xenon matrix
deposited on a sapphire window. When the laser sits on an individual atom, the
fluorescence persists for $\sim$30~s before dropping abruptly to the background
level, a clear confirmation of one-atom imaging. No barium fluorescence
persists following evaporation of a barium deposit to a limit of $\leq$0.16\%.
This is the first time that single atoms have been imaged in solid noble
element. It establishes the basic principle of a barium tagging technique for
nEXO.


Study of Silicon Photomultiplier Performance in External Electric Fields

  We report on the performance of silicon photomultiplier (SiPM) light sensors
operating in electric field strength up to 30 kV/cm and at a temperature of
149K, relative to their performance in the absence of an external electric
field. The SiPM devices used in this study show stable gain, photon detection
efficiency, and rates of correlated pulses, when exposed to external fields,
within the estimated uncertainties. No observable physical damage to the bulk
or surface of the devices was caused by the exposure.


Characterization of the Hamamatsu VUV4 MPPCs for nEXO

  In this paper we report on the characterization of the Hamamatsu VUV4 Vacuum
Ultra-Violet (VUV) sensitive Silicon Photo-Multipliers (SiPMs) as part of the
development of a solution for the detection of liquid xenon scintillation light
for the nEXO experiment. Various SiPM features, such as: dark noise, gain,
correlated avalanches, direct crosstalk and Photon Detection Efficiency (PDE)
were measured in a dedicated setup at TRIUMF. SiPMs were characterized in the
range $163 \text{ } \text{K} \leq \text{T}\leq 233 \text{ } \text{K}$. We
report a PDE of $13.4\pm2.6\%$ for $189\pm 7$ nm light at a SiPM over voltage
of $3.6\pm0.2\text{ V}$ and at $\text{T}=233 \text{ }\text{K}$. Within
systematic uncertainties, this value meets nEXO requirements. At an over
voltage of $3.1\pm0.2$ V and at $\text{T}=163 \text{ }\text{K}$ the number of
Correlated Avalanches (CAs) per pulse in the $1 \upmu\text{s}$ interval
following the trigger pulse is $0.161\pm0.005$. At the same settings the
Dark-Noise (DN) rate is $0.137\pm0.002 \text{ Hz/mm}^{2}$. Both the number of
CAs and the DN rate are within nEXO specifications.


Search for $Œ∑$ and $Œ∑^\prime\to œÄ^+ e^- \barŒΩ_e +c.c.$
  decays in $\jpsi \to œÜŒ∑$ and $œÜŒ∑^\prime$

  Using a sample of 225.3 million $\jpsi$ events collected with the BESIII
detector at the BEPCII $e^+e^-$ collider in 2009, searches for the decays of
$\eta$ and $\eta^\prime\to\pi^+ e^- \bar{\nu}_e +c.c.$ in $\jpsi \to \phi \eta$
and $\phi\eta^\prime$ are performed. The $\phi$ signals, which are
reconstructed in $K^+K^-$ final states, are used to tag $\eta$ and
$\eta^\prime$ semileptonic decays. No signals are observed for either $\eta$ or
$\eta^\prime$, and upper limits at the 90% confidence level are determined to
be $7.3\times 10^{-4}$ and $5.0\times 10^{-4}$ for the ratios $\frac{{\mathcal
B}(\eta\to \pi^+ e^- \bar{\nu}_e +c.c.)}{{\mathcal B}(\eta \to \pip\pim\piz)}$
and $\frac{{\mathcal B}(\eta^\prime\to \pi^+ e^-\bar{\nu}_e +c.c.)}{{\mathcal
B}(\eta^\prime \to \pip\pim\eta)}$, respectively. These are the first upper
limit values determined for $\eta$ and $\eta^\prime$ semileptonic weak decays.


