Network Extreme Eigenvalue - from Multimodal to Scale-free Network

  The extreme eigenvalues of adjacency matrices are important indicators on the
influences of topological structures to collective dynamical behavior of
complex networks. Recent findings on the ensemble averageability of the extreme
eigenvalue further authenticate its sensibility in the study of network
dynamics. Here we determine the ensemble average of the extreme eigenvalue and
characterize the deviation across the ensemble through the discrete form of
random scale-free network. Remarkably, the analytical approximation derived
from the discrete form shows significant improvement over the previous results.
This has also led us to the same conclusion as [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 248701
(2007)] that deviation in the reduced extreme eigenvalues vanishes as the
network size grows.


Spectral Anlysis on Explosive Percolation

  We study the spectral properties of the process of explosive percolation. In
particular, we explore how the maximum eigenvalue of the adjacency matrix of a
network which governs the spreading efficiency evolves as the density of
connection increases. Interestingly, for networks with connectivity that grow
in an explosive way, information spreading and mass transport are found to be
carried out inefficiently. In the conventional explosive percolation models
that we studied, the sudden emergences of large-scale connectivity are found to
come with relatively lowered efficiency of spreading. Nevertheless, the
spreading efficiency of the explosive model can be increased by introducing
heterogeneous structures into the networks.


Critical Transitions in Public Opinion: A Case Study of American
  Presidential Election

  At the tipping point, it is known that small incident can trigger dramatic
societal shift. Getting early-warning signals for such changes are valuable to
avoid detrimental outcomes such as riots or collapses of nations. However, it
is notoriously hard to capture the processes of such transitions in the
real-world. Here, we demonstrate the occurrence of a major shift in public
opinion in the form of political support. Instead of simple swapping of ruling
parties, we study the regime shift of a party popularity based on its
attractiveness by examining the American presidential elections during
1980-2012. A single irreversible transition is detected in 1991. Once a
transition happens, recovery to the original level of attractiveness does not
bring popularity of the political party back. Remarkably, this transition is
corroborated by tell-tale early-warning signature of critical slowing down. Our
approach is applicable to shifts in public attitude within any social system.


A New Reduced-Rank Linear Discriminant Analysis Method and Its
  Applications

  We consider multi-class classification problems for high dimensional data.
Following the idea of reduced-rank linear discriminant analysis (LDA), we
introduce a new dimension reduction tool with a flavor of supervised principal
component analysis (PCA). The proposed method is computationally efficient and
can incorporate the correlation structure among the features. Besides the
theoretical insights, we show that our method is a competitive classification
tool by simulated and real data examples.


Spin Path Integral And Quantum Mechanics In Rotating Reference of Frame

  We developed a path integral formalism for the quantum mechanics in a
rotating reference of frame, and proposed a spin path integral description for
the spin degrees of freedom in it. We have also give some examples for the
applications of our foramlism.


Molecular Dynamics Simulations for Anisotropic Thermal Conductivity of
  Borophene

  The present work carries out molecular dynamics simulations to compute the
thermal conductivity of the borophene nanoribbon and the borophene nanotube
using the Muller-Plathe approach. We investigate the thermal conductivity of
the armchair and zigzag borophenes, and show the strong anisotropic thermal
conductivity property of borophene. We compare the results of the borophene
nanoribbon and the borophene nanotube, and find the thermal conductivity of the
borophene is structure dependent.


Modeling Precursors for Event Forecasting via Nested Multi-Instance
  Learning

  Forecasting events like civil unrest movements, disease outbreaks, financial
market movements and government elections from open source indicators such as
news feeds and social media streams is an important and challenging problem.
From the perspective of human analysts and policy makers, forecasting
algorithms need to provide supporting evidence and identify the causes related
to the event of interest. We develop a novel multiple instance learning based
approach that jointly tackles the problem of identifying evidence-based
precursors and forecasts events into the future. Specifically, given a
collection of streaming news articles from multiple sources we develop a nested
multiple instance learning approach to forecast significant societal events
across three countries in Latin America. Our algorithm is able to identify news
articles considered as precursors for a protest. Our empirical evaluation shows
the strengths of our proposed approaches in filtering candidate precursors,
forecasting the occurrence of events with a lead time and predicting the
characteristics of different events in comparison to several other
formulations. We demonstrate through case studies the effectiveness of our
proposed model in filtering the candidate precursors for inspection by a human
analyst.


Fully Computable Error Bounds for Eigenvalue Problem

  This paper is concerned with the computable error estimates for the
eigenvalue problem which is solved by the general conforming finite element
methods on the general meshes. Based on the computable error estimate, we can
give an asymptotically lower bound of the general eigenvalues. Furthermore, we
also give a guaranteed upper bound of the error estimates for the first
eigenfunction approximation and a guaranteed lower bound of the first
eigenvalue based on computable error estimator. Some numerical examples are
presented to validate the theoretical results deduced in this paper.


Epidemic spreading induced by diversity of agents' mobility

  In this paper, we study into the impact of the preference of an individual
for public transport on the spread of infectious disease, through a quantity
known as the public mobility. Our theoretical and numerical results based on a
constructed model reveal that if the average public mobility of the agents is
fixed, an increase in the diversity of the agents' public mobility reduces the
epidemic threshold, beyond which an enhancement in the rate of infection is
observed. Our findings provide an approach to improve the resistance of a
society against infectious disease, while preserving the utilization rate of
the public transportation system.


Multiple Change-point Detection: a Selective Overview

  Very long and noisy sequence data arise from biological sciences to social
science including high throughput data in genomics and stock prices in
econometrics. Often such data are collected in order to identify and understand
shifts in trend, e.g., from a bull market to a bear market in finance or from a
normal number of chromosome copies to an excessive number of chromosome copies
in genetics. Thus, identifying multiple change points in a long, possibly very
long, sequence is an important problem. In this article, we review both
classical and new multiple change-point detection strategies. Considering the
long history and the extensive literature on the change-point detection, we
provide an in-depth discussion on a normal mean change-point model from aspects
of regression analysis, hypothesis testing, consistency and inference. In
particular, we present a strategy to gather and aggregate local information for
change-point detection that has become the cornerstone of several emerging
methods because of its attractiveness in both computational and theoretical
properties.


YouTube-VOS: A Large-Scale Video Object Segmentation Benchmark

  Learning long-term spatial-temporal features are critical for many video
analysis tasks. However, existing video segmentation methods predominantly rely
on static image segmentation techniques, and methods capturing temporal
dependency for segmentation have to depend on pretrained optical flow models,
leading to suboptimal solutions for the problem. End-to-end sequential learning
to explore spatialtemporal features for video segmentation is largely limited
by the scale of available video segmentation datasets, i.e., even the largest
video segmentation dataset only contains 90 short video clips. To solve this
problem, we build a new large-scale video object segmentation dataset called
YouTube Video Object Segmentation dataset (YouTube-VOS). Our dataset contains
4,453 YouTube video clips and 94 object categories. This is by far the largest
video object segmentation dataset to our knowledge and has been released at
http://youtube-vos.org. We further evaluate several existing state-of-the-art
video object segmentation algorithms on this dataset which aims to establish
baselines for the development of new algorithms in the future.


Bus bunching as a synchronisation phenomenon

  Bus bunching is a perennial phenomenon that not only diminishes the
efficiency of a bus system, but also prevents transit authorities from keeping
buses on schedule. We present a physical theory of buses serving a loop of bus
stops as a ring of coupled self-oscillators, analogous to the Kuramoto model.
Sustained bunching is a repercussion of the process of phase synchronisation
whereby the phases of the oscillators are locked to each other. This emerges
when demand exceeds a critical threshold. Buses also bunch at low demand,
albeit temporarily, due to frequency detuning arising from different human
drivers' distinct natural speeds. We calculate the critical transition when
\emph{complete phase locking} (full synchronisation) occurs for the bus system,
and posit the critical transition to \emph{completely no phase locking} (zero
synchronisation). The intermediate regime comprising \emph{chimera states} is
the phase where clusters of partially phase locked buses exist. Intriguingly,
these theoretical results are in close correspondence to real buses in a
university's shuttle bus system.


YouTube-VOS: Sequence-to-Sequence Video Object Segmentation

  Learning long-term spatial-temporal features are critical for many video
analysis tasks. However, existing video segmentation methods predominantly rely
on static image segmentation techniques, and methods capturing temporal
dependency for segmentation have to depend on pretrained optical flow models,
leading to suboptimal solutions for the problem. End-to-end sequential learning
to explore spatial-temporal features for video segmentation is largely limited
by the scale of available video segmentation datasets, i.e., even the largest
video segmentation dataset only contains 90 short video clips. To solve this
problem, we build a new large-scale video object segmentation dataset called
YouTube Video Object Segmentation dataset (YouTube-VOS). Our dataset contains
3,252 YouTube video clips and 78 categories including common objects and human
activities. This is by far the largest video object segmentation dataset to our
knowledge and we have released it at https://youtube-vos.org. Based on this
dataset, we propose a novel sequence-to-sequence network to fully exploit
long-term spatial-temporal information in videos for segmentation. We
demonstrate that our method is able to achieve the best results on our
YouTube-VOS test set and comparable results on DAVIS 2016 compared to the
current state-of-the-art methods. Experiments show that the large scale dataset
is indeed a key factor to the success of our model.


An Electric Vehicle Charging Management Scheme Based on
  Publish/Subscribe Communication Framework

  Motivated by alleviating CO$_2$ pollution, Electric Vehicle (EV) based
applications have recently received wide interests from both commercial and
research communities by using electric energy instead of traditional fuel
energy. Although EVs are inherently with limited travelling distance, such
limitation could be overcome by deploying public Charging Stations (CSs) to
recharge EVs battery during their journeys. In this paper we propose a novel
communication framework for on-the-move EV charging scenario, based on the
Publish/Subscribe (P/S) mechanism for disseminating necessary CS information to
EVs, in order for them to make optimized decisions on where to charge. A core
part of our communication framework is the utilization of Road Side Units
(RSUs) to bridge the information flow from CSs to EVs, which has been regarded
as a type of cost-efficient communication infrastructure. Under this design, we
introduce two complementary communication modes of signalling protocols, namely
Push and Pull Modes, in order to enable the required information dissemination
operation. Both analysis and simulation show the advantage of Pull Mode, in
which the information is cached at RSUs to support asynchronous communication.
We further propose a remote reservation service based on the Pull Mode, such
that the CS-selection decision making can utilize the knowledge of EVs'
charging reservation, as published from EVs through RSUs to CSs. Results show
that both the performance at CS and EV sides are further improved based on
using this anticipated information.


Dark matter direct search sensitivity of the PandaX-4T experiment

  The PandaX-4T experiment, a four-ton scale dark matter direct detection
experiment, is being planned at the China Jinping Underground Laboratory. In
this paper we present a simulation study of the expected background in this
experiment. In a 2.8-ton fiducial mass and the signal region between 1 to 10
keV electron equivalent energy, the total electron recoil background is found
to be 4.9x10^{-5} /(kg day keV). The nuclear recoil background in the same
region is 2.8x10^{-7}/(kg day keV). With an exposure of 5.6 ton-years, the
sensitivity of PandaX-4T could reach a minimum spin-independent dark
matter-nucleon cross section of 6x10^{-48} cm^{2} at a dark matter mass of 40
GeV/c^{2}.


PandaX-II Constraints on Spin-Dependent WIMP-Nucleon Effective
  Interactions

  We present PandaX-II constraints on candidate WIMP-nucleon effective
interactions involving the nucleon or WIMP spin, including, in addition to
standard axial spin-dependent (SD) scattering, various couplings among vector
and axial currents, magnetic and electric dipole moments, and tensor
interactions. The data set corresponding to a total exposure of 54-ton-days is
reanalyzed to determine constraints as a function of the WIMP mass and isospin
coupling. We obtain WIMP-nucleon cross section bounds of $\rm 1.6 \times
10^{-41} cm^2$ and $\rm 9.0 \times 10^{-42} cm^2$ ($90\%$ c.l.) for
neutron-only SD and tensor coupling, respectively, for a mass $M_\mathrm{WIMP}
\sim {\rm 40~GeV}/c^2$. The SD limits are the best currently available for
$M_\mathrm{WIMP} > {\rm 40~GeV}/c^2$. We show that PandaX-II has reached a
sensitivity sufficient to probe a variety of other candidate spin-dependent
interactions at the weak scale.


Generating Realistic Synthetic Population Datasets

  Modern studies of societal phenomena rely on the availability of large
datasets capturing attributes and activities of synthetic, city-level,
populations. For instance, in epidemiology, synthetic population datasets are
necessary to study disease propagation and intervention measures before
implementation. In social science, synthetic population datasets are needed to
understand how policy decisions might affect preferences and behaviors of
individuals. In public health, synthetic population datasets are necessary to
capture diagnostic and procedural characteristics of patient records without
violating confidentialities of individuals. To generate such datasets over a
large set of categorical variables, we propose the use of the maximum entropy
principle to formalize a generative model such that in a statistically
well-founded way we can optimally utilize given prior information about the
data, and are unbiased otherwise. An efficient inference algorithm is designed
to estimate the maximum entropy model, and we demonstrate how our approach is
adept at estimating underlying data distributions. We evaluate this approach
against both simulated data and on US census datasets, and demonstrate its
feasibility using an epidemic simulation application.


Phase-locked array of quantum cascade lasers with an intracavity spatial
  filter

  Phase-locking an array of quantum cascade lasers is an effective way to
achieve higher output power and beam shaping. In this article, based on Talbot
effect, we show a new-type phase-locked array of mid-infrared quantum cascade
lasers with an integrated spatial- filtering Talbot cavity. All the arrays show
stable in-phase operation from the threshold current to full power current. The
beam divergence of the array device is smaller than that of a single-ridge
laser. We use the multi-slit Fraunhofer diffraction mode to interpret the
far-field radiation profile and give a solution to get better beam quality. The
maximum power is just about 5 times that of a single-ridge laser for
eleven-laser array device and 3 times for seven-laser array device. Considering
the great modal selection ability, simple fabricating process and the potential
for achieving better beam quality and smaller cavity loss, this new-type
phase-locked array may be a hopeful and elegant solution to get high power or
beam shaping.


One-step synthesis of van der Waals heterostructures of graphene and 2D
  superconducting a-Mo2C

  Assembling different two-dimensional (2D) crystals, covering a very broad
range of properties, into van der Waals (vdW) heterostructures enables the
unprecedented possibilities for combining the best of different ingredients in
one objective material. So far, metallic, semiconducting, and insulating 2D
crystals have been used successfully in making functional vdW heterostructures
with properties by design. Here, we expand 2D superconducting crystals as a
building block of the vdW hererostructures. A one-step growth of large-scale
high-quality vdW heterostructures of graphene and 2D superconducting a-Mo2C by
using chemical vapor deposition (CVD) method is reported. The superconductivity
and its 2D nature of the heterostructures are characterized by our scanning
tunneling microscopy (STM) measurements. This adds the 2D superconductivity,
the most attractive property of condensed matter physics, to the vdW
heterostructures.


Initial Cell Search and Selection for Load Balancing and Throughput
  Optimization in 5G Millimeter Wave Networks

  The increasing adoption of the Internet of Things (IoT) requires careful
design and optimization of the next-generation mobile networks (a.k.a. 5G) in
every aspect to efficiently cope with the diverse and wide range of IoT
requirements. Initial cell search and selection is one of the first few
essential steps that a mobile device must perform to access a mobile network.
The distinct features of 5G bring new challenges to the design of initial cell
search and selection. In this paper, we propose a load aware initial cell
search and selection scheme for 5G millimeter wave networks. The proposed
scheme augments the existing pure received power based scheme by incorporating
a new load factor broadcast as part of system information. We then formulate a
throughput optimization problem using the optimal stopping theory. We
characterize the throughput optimal stopping strategy and the attained maximum
throughput. The results show that the proposed initial cell search and
selection scheme is throughput optimal with a carefully optimized connection
threshold.


Exploring the dark matter inelastic frontier with 79.6 days of PandaX-II
  data

  We report here the results of searching for inelastic scattering of dark
matter (initial and final state dark matter particles differ by a small mass
splitting) with nucleon with the first 79.6-day of PandaX-II data (Run 9). We
set the upper limits for the spin independent WIMP-nucleon scattering cross
section up to a mass splitting of 300 keV/c$^2$ at two benchmark dark matter
masses of 1 and 10 TeV/c$^2$.


Dark Matter Results From 54-Ton-Day Exposure of PandaX-II Experiment

  We report a new search of weakly interacting massive particles (WIMPs) using
the combined low background data sets in 2016 and 2017 from the PandaX-II
experiment in China. The latest data set contains a new exposure of 77.1 live
day, with the background reduced to a level of 0.8$\times10^{-3}$ evt/kg/day,
improved by a factor of 2.5 in comparison to the previous run in 2016. No
excess events were found above the expected background. With a total exposure
of 5.4$\times10^4$ kg day, the most stringent upper limit on spin-independent
WIMP-nucleon cross section was set for a WIMP with mass larger than 100
GeV/c$^2$, with the lowest exclusion at 8.6$\times10^{-47}$ cm$^2$ at 40
GeV/c$^2$.


Constraining Dark Matter Models with a Light Mediator from PandaX-II
  Experiment

  We search for nuclear recoil signals of dark matter models with a light
mediator in PandaX-II, a direct detection experiment in China Jinping
underground Laboratory. Using data collected in 2016 and 2017 runs,
corresponding to a total exposure of 54 ton day, we set upper limits on the
zero-momentum dark matter-nucleon cross section. These limits have a strong
dependence on the mediator mass when it is comparable to or below the typical
momentum transfer. We apply our results to constrain self-interacting dark
matter models with a light mediator mixing with standard model particles, and
set strong limits on the model parameter space for the dark matter mass ranging
from $5~{\rm GeV}$ to $10~{\rm TeV}$.


Phase-locked array of quantum cascade lasers with an integrated Talbot
  cavity

  We show a phase-locked array of three quantum cascade lasers with an
integrated Talbot cavity at one side of the laser array. The coupling scheme is
called diffraction coupling. By controlling the length of Talbot to be a
quarter of Talbot distance (Zt/4), in-phase mode operation can be selected. The
in-phase operation shows great modal stability under different injection
currents, from the threshold current to the full power current. The far-field
radiation pattern of the in-phase operation contains three lobes, one central
maximum lobe and two side lobes. The interval between adjacent lobes is about
10.5{\deg}. The output power is about 1.5 times that of a single-ridge laser.
Further studies should be taken to achieve better beam performance and reduce
optical losses brought by the integrated Talbot cavity.


Implications of CP-violating Top-Higgs Couplings at LHC and Higgs
  Factories

  We utilise the LHC Run-1 and -2 Higgs data to constrain the CP-violating
top-Higgs couplings. In order to satisfy the current full Higgs data sets at
$2\sigma$ level, the CP-odd component $C^p_t$ and the CP-even component $C^s_t$
have to be within the ranges $|C^p_t|< 0.37$ and $0.85 <C^s_t< 1.20$,
respectively, which is stronger than the LHC Run-1 bound $|C^p_t|< 0.54$ and
$0.68 <C^s_t< 1.20$. With the new bound, we explore the impact on the
CP-violating top-Higgs couplings in the Higgs production processes $pp \to
t\bar{t}h, thj, hh$ at 13 TeV LHC, and $e^+e^- \to hZ, h\gamma$ at future 240
GeV Higgs factories. We find that the cross sections of $pp \to t\bar{t}h$, $pp
\to thj$, $pp \to hh$, $e^+e^- \to hZ$ and $e^+e^- \to h\gamma$ can be enhanced
up to 1.41, 1.18, 2.20, 1.001 and 1.09 times as large as the SM predictions,
respectively. The future precision measurement of the process $e^+e^- \to
h\gamma$ with an accuracy of 5\% will be able to constrain $|C^p_t|<0.19$ at
most at a 240 GeV $e^+e^-$ Higgs factory.


Relativistic, single-cycle tunable-infrared pulses generated by a
  tailored plasma density structure

  The availability of intense, ultrashort coherent radiation sources in the
infrared region of the spectrum is enabling the generation of attosecond X-ray
pulses via high harmonic generation, pump-probe experiments in the "molecular
fingerprint" region and opening up the area of relativistic-infrared nonlinear
optics of plasmas. These applications would benefit from multi-millijoule
single-cycle pulses in the mid to long wavelength infrared (LW-IR) region. Here
we present a new scheme capable of producing tunable relativistically intense,
single-cycle infrared pulses from 5-14$\mu$m with a 1.7% conversion efficiency
based on a photon frequency downshifting scheme that uses a tailored plasma
density structure. The carrier-envelope phase (CEP) of the LW-IR pulse is
locked to that of the drive laser to within a few percent. Such a versatile
tunable IR source may meet the demands of many cutting-edge applications in
strong-field physics and greatly promote their development.


Dark Matter Results from First 98.7-day Data of PandaX-II Experiment

  We report the WIMP dark matter search results using the first physics-run
data of the PandaX-II 500 kg liquid xenon dual-phase time-projection chamber,
operating at the China JinPing Underground Laboratory. No dark matter candidate
is identified above background. In combination with the data set during the
commissioning run, with a total exposure of 3.3$\times10^4$ kg-day,the most
stringent limit to the spin-independent interaction between the ordinary and
WIMP dark matter is set for a range of dark matter mass between 3.5 and 1000
GeV/c$^2$. The best upper limit on the scattering cross section is found
$2.5\times 10^{-46}$ cm$^2$ for the WIMP mass 40 GeV/c$^2$ at 90% confidence
level.


Spin-Dependent Weakly-Interacting-Massive-Particle--Nucleon Cross
  Section Limits from First Data of PandaX-II Experiment

  New constraints are presented on the spin-dependent WIMP-nucleon interaction
from the PandaX-II experiment, using a data set corresponding to a total
exposure of 3.3$\times10^4$ kg-days. Assuming a standard axial-vector
spin-dependent WIMP interaction with $^{129}$Xe and $^{131}$Xe nuclei, the most
stringent upper limits on WIMP-neutron cross sections for WIMPs with masses
above 10 GeV/c$^{2}$ are set in all dark matter direct detection experiments.
The minimum upper limit of $4.1\times 10^{-41}$ cm$^2$ at 90\% confidence level
is obtained for a WIMP mass of 40 GeV/c$^{2}$. This represents more than a
factor of two improvement on the best available limits at this and higher
masses. These improved cross-section limits provide more stringent constraints
on the effective WIMP-proton and WIMP-neutron couplings.


Limits on Axion Couplings from the first 80-day data of PandaX-II
  Experiment

  We report new searches for the solar axions and galactic axion-like dark
matter particles, using the first low-background data from PandaX-II experiment
at China Jinping Underground Laboratory, corresponding to a total exposure of
about $2.7\times 10^4$ kg$\cdot$day. No solar axion or galactic axion-like dark
matter particle candidate has been identified. The upper limit on the
axion-electron coupling ($g_{Ae}$) from the solar flux is found to be about
$4.35 \times 10^{-12}$ in mass range from $10^{-5}$ to 1 keV/$c^2$ with 90\%
confidence level, similar to the recent LUX result. We also report a new best
limit from the $^{57}$Fe de-excitation. On the other hand, the upper limit from
the galactic axions is on the order of $10^{-13}$ in the mass range from 1
keV/$c^2$ to 10 keV/$c^2$ with 90\% confidence level, slightly improved
compared with the LUX.


Study of the material photon and electron background and the liquid
  argon detector veto efficiency of the CDEX-10 experiment

  The China Dark Matter Experiment (CDEX) is located at the China Jinping
underground laboratory (CJPL) and aims to directly detect the WIMP flux with
high sensitivity in the low mass region. Here we present a study of the
predicted photon and electron backgrounds including the background contribution
of the structure materials of the germanium detector, the passive shielding
materials, and the intrinsic radioactivity of the liquid argon that serves as
an anti-Compton active shielding detector. A detailed geometry is modeled and
the background contribution has been simulated based on the measured
radioactivities of all possible components within the GEANT4 program. Then the
photon and electron background level in the energy region of interest (<10^-2
events kg-1 day-1 keV-1 (cpkkd)) is predicted based on Monte Carlo simulations.
The simulated result is consistent with the design goal of CDEX-10 experiment,
0.1 cpkkd, which shows that the active and passive shield design of CDEX-10 is
effective and feasible.


Introduction of the CDEX experiment

  Weakly Interacting Massive Particles (WIMPs) are the candidates of dark
matter in our universe. Up to now any direct interaction of WIMP with nuclei
has not been observed yet. The exclusion limits of the spin-independent cross
section of WIMP-nucleon which have been experimentally obtained is about
10^{-7}pb at high mass region and only 10^{-5}pb} at low mass region. China
Jin-Ping underground laboratory CJPL is the deepest underground lab in the
world and provides a very promising environment for direct observation of dark
matter. The China Dark Matter Experiment (CDEX) experiment is going to directly
detect the WIMP flux with high sensitivity in the low mass region. Both CJPL
and CDEX have achieved a remarkable progress in recent two years. The CDEX
employs a point-contact germanium semi-conductor detector PCGe whose detection
threshold is less than 300 eV. We report the measurement results of Muon flux,
monitoring of radioactivity and Radon concentration carried out in CJPL, as
well describe the structure and performance of the 1 kg PCGe detector CDEX-1
and 10kg detector array CDEX-10 including the detectors, electronics, shielding
and cooling systems. Finally we discuss the physics goals of the CDEX-1,
CDEX-10 and the future CDEX-1T detectors.


Exploring genetic variation in the tomato (Solanum section Lycopersicon)
  clade by whole-genome sequencing

  Genetic variation in the tomato clade was explored by sequencing a selection
of 84 tomato accessions and related wild species representative for the
Lycopersicon, Arcanum, Eriopersicon, and Neolycopersicon groups. We present a
reconstruction of three new reference genomes in support of our comparative
genome analyses. Sequence diversity in commercial breeding lines appears
extremely low, indicating the dramatic genetic erosion of crop tomatoes. This
is reflected by the SNP count in wild species which can exceed 10 million i.e.
20 fold higher than in crop accessions. Comparative sequence alignment reveals
group, species, and accession specific polymorphisms, which explain
characteristic fruit traits and growth habits in tomato accessions. Using gene
models from the annotated Heinz reference genome, we observe a bias in dN/dS
ratio in fruit and growth diversification genes compared to a random set of
genes, which probably is the result of a positive selection. We detected highly
divergent segments in wild S. lycopersicum species, and footprints of
introgressions in crop accessions originating from a common donor accession.
Phylogenetic relationships of fruit diversification and growth specific genes
from crop accessions show incomplete resolution and are dependent on the
introgression donor. In contrast, whole genome SNP information has sufficient
power to resolve the phylogenetic placement of each accession in the four main
groups in the Lycopersicon clade using Maximum Likelihood analyses.
Phylogenetic relationships appear correlated with habitat and mating type and
point to the occurrence of geographical races within these groups and thus are
of practical importance for introgressive hybridization breeding. Our study
illustrates the need for multiple reference genomes in support of tomato
comparative genomics and Solanum genome evolution studies.


Precision Higgs Physics at CEPC

  The discovery of the Higgs boson with its mass around 125 GeV by the ATLAS
and CMS Collaborations marked the beginning of a new era in high energy
physics. The Higgs boson will be the subject of extensive studies of the
ongoing LHC program. At the same time, lepton collider based Higgs factories
have been proposed as a possible next step beyond the LHC, with its main goal
to precisely measure the properties of the Higgs boson and probe potential new
physics associated with the Higgs boson. The Circular Electron Positron
Collider~(CEPC) is one of such proposed Higgs factories. The CEPC is an
$e^+e^-$ circular collider proposed by and to be hosted in China. Located in a
tunnel of approximately 100~km in circumference, it will operate at a
center-of-mass energy of 240~GeV as the Higgs factory. In this paper, we
present the first estimates on the precision of the Higgs boson property
measurements achievable at the CEPC and discuss implications of these
measurements.


The CDEX-1 1 kg Point-Contact Germanium Detector for Low Mass Dark
  Matter Searches

  The CDEX Collaboration has been established for direct detection of light
dark matter particles, using ultra-low energy threshold p-type point-contact
germanium detectors, in China JinPing underground Laboratory (CJPL). The first
1 kg point-contact germanium detector with a sub-keV energy threshold has been
tested in a passive shielding system located in CJPL. The outputs from both the
point-contact p+ electrode and the outside n+ electrode make it possible to
scan the lower energy range of less than 1 keV and at the same time to detect
the higher energy range up to 3 MeV. The outputs from both p+ and n+ electrode
may also provide a more powerful method for signal discrimination for dark
matter experiment. Some key parameters, including energy resolution, dead time,
decay times of internal X-rays, and system stability, have been tested and
measured. The results show that the 1 kg point-contact germanium detector,
together with its shielding system and electronics, can run smoothly with good
performances. This detector system will be deployed for dark matter search
experiments.


Assemblathon 2: evaluating de novo methods of genome assembly in three
  vertebrate species

  Background - The process of generating raw genome sequence data continues to
become cheaper, faster, and more accurate. However, assembly of such data into
high-quality, finished genome sequences remains challenging. Many genome
assembly tools are available, but they differ greatly in terms of their
performance (speed, scalability, hardware requirements, acceptance of newer
read technologies) and in their final output (composition of assembled
sequence). More importantly, it remains largely unclear how to best assess the
quality of assembled genome sequences. The Assemblathon competitions are
intended to assess current state-of-the-art methods in genome assembly. Results
- In Assemblathon 2, we provided a variety of sequence data to be assembled for
three vertebrate species (a bird, a fish, and snake). This resulted in a total
of 43 submitted assemblies from 21 participating teams. We evaluated these
assemblies using a combination of optical map data, Fosmid sequences, and
several statistical methods. From over 100 different metrics, we chose ten key
measures by which to assess the overall quality of the assemblies. Conclusions
- Many current genome assemblers produced useful assemblies, containing a
significant representation of their genes, regulatory sequences, and overall
genome structure. However, the high degree of variability between the entries
suggests that there is still much room for improvement in the field of genome
assembly and that approaches which work well in assembling the genome of one
species may not necessarily work well for another.


Identifying the Best Machine Learning Algorithms for Brain Tumor
  Segmentation, Progression Assessment, and Overall Survival Prediction in the
  BRATS Challenge

  Gliomas are the most common primary brain malignancies, with different
degrees of aggressiveness, variable prognosis and various heterogeneous
histologic sub-regions, i.e., peritumoral edematous/invaded tissue, necrotic
core, active and non-enhancing core. This intrinsic heterogeneity is also
portrayed in their radio-phenotype, as their sub-regions are depicted by
varying intensity profiles disseminated across multi-parametric magnetic
resonance imaging (mpMRI) scans, reflecting varying biological properties.
Their heterogeneous shape, extent, and location are some of the factors that
make these tumors difficult to resect, and in some cases inoperable. The amount
of resected tumor is a factor also considered in longitudinal scans, when
evaluating the apparent tumor for potential diagnosis of progression.
Furthermore, there is mounting evidence that accurate segmentation of the
various tumor sub-regions can offer the basis for quantitative image analysis
towards prediction of patient overall survival. This study assesses the
state-of-the-art machine learning (ML) methods used for brain tumor image
analysis in mpMRI scans, during the last seven instances of the International
Brain Tumor Segmentation (BraTS) challenge, i.e., 2012-2018. Specifically, we
focus on i) evaluating segmentations of the various glioma sub-regions in
pre-operative mpMRI scans, ii) assessing potential tumor progression by virtue
of longitudinal growth of tumor sub-regions, beyond use of the RECIST/RANO
criteria, and iii) predicting the overall survival from pre-operative mpMRI
scans of patients that underwent gross total resection. Finally, we investigate
the challenge of identifying the best ML algorithms for each of these tasks,
considering that apart from being diverse on each instance of the challenge,
the multi-institutional mpMRI BraTS dataset has also been a continuously
evolving/growing dataset.


Measurement of the absolute branching fraction of $D^{+}\rightarrow\bar
  K^0 e^{+}ν_{e}$ via $\bar K^0\toπ^0π^0$

  By analyzing 2.93 fb$^{-1}$ data collected at the center-of-mass energy
$\sqrt s=3.773$ GeV with the BESIII detector, we measure the absolute branching
fraction of the semileptonic decay $D^+\rightarrow\bar K^0 e^{+}\nu_{e}$ to be
${\mathcal B}(D^{+}\rightarrow\bar K^0 e^{+}\nu_{e})=(8.59 \pm 0.14 \pm
0.21)\%$ using $\bar K^0\to K^0_S\to \pi^0\pi^0$, where the first uncertainty
is statistical and the second systematic. Our result is consistent with
previous measurements within uncertainties.


Measurement of Singly Cabibbo Suppressed Decays $Λ_c^{+}\to
  pπ^{+}π^{-}$ and $Λ_c^{+}\to pK^{+}K^{-}$

  Using 567 $pb^{-1}$ of data collected with the BESIII detector at a
center-of-mass energy of $\sqrt{s}=$ 4.599 $GeV$, near the
$\Lambda_{c}^{+}\Lambda_{c}^{-}$ threshold, we study the singly
Cabibbo-suppressed decays $\Lambda_c^{+}\to p\pi^{+}\pi^{-}$ and
$\Lambda_c^{+}\to pK^{+}K^{-}$. By normalizing with respect to the
Cabibbo-favored decay $\Lambda_c^{+}\to pK^{-}\pi^{+}$, we obtain ratios of
branching fractions: $\frac{\mathcal{B}(\Lambda_c^{+}\to
p\pi^{+}\pi^{-})}{\mathcal{B}(\Lambda_c^{+}\to pK^{-}\pi^{+})}$ = $(6.70 \pm
0.48 \pm 0.25)\%$, $\frac{\mathcal{B}(\Lambda_c^{+}\to
p\phi)}{\mathcal{B}(\Lambda_c^{+}\to pK^{-}\pi^{+})}$ = $(1.81 \pm 0.33 \pm
0.13)\%$, and $\frac{\mathcal{B}(\Lambda_c^{+}\to
pK^{+}K^{-}_{\text{non-}\phi})}{\mathcal{B}(\Lambda_c^{+}\to pK^{-}\pi^{+})}$ =
$(9.36 \pm 2.22 \pm 0.71)\times10^{-3}$, where the uncertainties are
statistical and systematic, respectively. The absolute branching fractions are
also presented. Among these measurements, the decay $\Lambda_c^{+}\to
p\pi^{+}\pi^{-}$ is observed for the first time, and the precision of the
branching fraction for $\Lambda_c^{+}\to pK^{+}K^{-}_{\text{non-}\phi}$ and
$\Lambda_c^{+}\to p\phi$ is significantly improved.


Measurements of the branching fractions for $D^+\to K^0_SK^0_SK^+$,
  $K^0_SK^0_Sπ^+$ and $D^0\to K^0_SK^0_S$, $K^0_SK^0_SK^0_S$

  By analyzing $2.93\ \rm fb^{-1}$ of data taken at the $\psi(3770)$ resonance
peak with the BESIII detector, we measure the branching fractions for the
hadronic decays $D^+\to K^0_SK^0_S K^+$, $D^+\to K^0_SK^0_S \pi^+$, $D^0\to
K^0_S K^0_S$ and $D^0\to K^0_SK^0_SK^0_S$. They are determined to be ${\mathcal
B}(D^+\to K^0_SK^0_SK^+)=(2.54 \pm 0.05_{\rm stat.} \pm 0.12_{\rm sys.})\times
10^{-3}$, ${\mathcal B}(D^+\to K^0_SK^0_S\pi^+)=(2.70 \pm 0.05_{\rm stat.} \pm
0.12_{\rm sys.})\times 10^{-3}$, ${\mathcal B}(D^0\to K^0_SK^0_S)=(1.67 \pm
0.11_{\rm stat.} \pm 0.11_{\rm sys.})\times 10^{-4}$ and ${\mathcal B}(D^0\to
K^0_SK^0_SK^0_S)=(7.21 \pm 0.33_{\rm stat.} \pm 0.44_{\rm sys.})\times
10^{-4}$, where the second one is measured for the first time and the others
are measured with significantly improved precision over the previous
measurements.


Measurement of the Branching Fraction For the Semi-Leptonic Decays
  $D^{0(+)}\to π^{-(0)}μ^+ν_μ$ and Test of Lepton Flavor Universality

  Using a data sample corresponding to an integrated luminosity of $2.93\,\rm
fb^{-1}$ taken at a center-of-mass energy of 3.773\,GeV with the BESIII
detector operated at the BEPCII collider, we perform an analysis of the
semi-leptonic decays $D^{0(+)}\to \pi^{-(0)}\mu^+\nu_\mu$. The branching
fractions of $D^0\to \pi^-\mu^+\nu_\mu$ and $D^+\to \pi^0\mu^+\nu_\mu$ are
measured to be $(0.272 \pm 0.008_{\rm stat.} \pm 0.006_{\rm syst.})\%$ and
$(0.350 \pm 0.011_{\rm stat.} \pm 0.010_{\rm syst.})\%$, respectively, where
the former is of much improved precision compared to previous results and the
latter is determined for the first time. Using these results along with
previous BESIII measurements of $D^{0(+)}\to \pi^{-(0)}e^+\nu_e$, we calculate
the branching fraction ratios to be ${\mathcal R}^0\equiv {\mathcal
B}_{D^{0}\to \pi^{-}\mu^+\nu_\mu}/{\mathcal B}_{D^{0}\to
\pi^{-}e^+\nu_e}=0.922\pm 0.030_{\rm stat.}\pm0.022_{\rm syst.}$ and ${\mathcal
R}^+\equiv {\mathcal B}_{D^{+}\to \pi^{0}\mu^+\nu_\mu}/{\mathcal B}_{D^{+}\to
\pi^{0}e^+\nu_e}=0.964\pm 0.037_{\rm stat.}\pm0.026_{\rm syst.}$, which are
compatible with the theoretical expectation of lepton flavor universality
within $1.7\sigma$ and $0.5\sigma$, respectively. We also examine the branching
fraction ratios in different four-momentum transfer square regions, and find no
significant deviations from the standard model predictions.


Measurement of Singly Cabibbo-Suppressed Decays
  $D^{0}\toπ^{0}π^{0}π^{0}$, $π^{0}π^{0}η$, $π^{0}ηη$ and
  $ηηη$

  Using a data sample of $e^+e^-$ collision data corresponding to an integrated
luminosity of 2.93 $fb^{-1}$ collected with the BESIII detector at a
center-of-mass energy of $\sqrt{s}= 3.773~GeV$,we search for the singly
Cabibbo-suppressed decays $D^{0}\to\pi^{0}\pi^{0}\pi^{0}$,
$\pi^{0}\pi^{0}\eta$, $\pi^{0}\eta\eta$ and $\eta\eta\eta$ using the double tag
method. The absolute branching fractions are measured to be
$\mathcal{B}(D^{0}\to\pi^{0}\pi^{0}\pi^{0}) = (2.0 \pm 0.4 \pm 0.3)\times
10^{-4}$, $\mathcal{B}(D^{0}\to\pi^{0}\pi^{0}\eta) = (3.8 \pm 1.1 \pm
0.7)\times 10^{-4}$ and $\mathcal{B}(D^{0}\to\pi^{0}\eta\eta) = (7.3 \pm 1.6
\pm 1.5)\times 10^{-4}$ with the statistical significances of $4.8\sigma$,
$3.8\sigma$ and $5.5\sigma$, respectively, where the first uncertainties are
statistical and the second ones systematic. No significant signal of
$D^{0}\to\eta\eta\eta$ is found, and the upper limit on its decay branching
fraction is set to be $\mathcal{B}(D^{0}\to\eta\eta\eta) < 1.3 \times 10^{-4}$
at the $90\%$ confidence level.


