Weak Evolvability Equals Strong Evolvability

  An updated version will be uploaded later.


On Relations among Fourier Coefficients and Sum-functions

  We generalize five theorems of Leindler on the relations among Fourier
coefficients and sum-functions under the more general $NBV$ condition.


Cluster categories for marked surfaces: punctured case

  We study the cluster categories arising from marked surfaces (with punctures
and non-empty boundaries). By constructing skewed-gentle algebras, we show that
there is a bijection between tagged curves and string objects. Applications
include interpreting dimensions of $\operatorname{Ext}^1$ as intersection
numbers of tagged curves and Auslander-Reiten translation as tagged rotation.
An important consequence is that the cluster(-tilting) exchange graphs of such
cluster categories are connected.


Decorated marked surfaces II: Intersection numbers and dimensions of
  Homs

  We study the 3-Calabi-Yau categories $\mathcal{D}$ arising from quivers with
potential associated to a decorated marked surface $\mathbf{S}_\bigtriangleup$
introduced by the first author. We prove two conjectures in the prequel, that
under a bijection between certain objects in $\mathcal{D}$ and certain arcs in
$\mathbf{S}_\bigtriangleup$, the dimensions of morphisms between these objects
equal the intersection numbers between the corresponding arcs.


Finite presentations for spherical/braid twist groups from decorated
  marked surfaces

  We give a finite presentation for the braid twist group of a decorated
surface. If the decorated surface arises from a triangulated marked surface
without punctures, we obtain a finite presentation for the spherical twist
group of the associated 3-Calabi-Yau triangulated category. The
motivation/application is that the result will be used to show that the
(principal component of) space of stability conditions on the 3-Calabi-Yau
category is simply connected in the sequel.


A Generalization of Monotonicity Condition and Applications

  In the present paper, we introduce a new class of sequences called $NBVS$ to
generalize $GBVS$, essentially extending monotonicity from "one sided" to "two
sided", while some important classical results keep true.


An effective spin-1 Heisenberg chain in coupled cavities

  A coupled array of $N$ identical cavities, each of which contains a
five-level atom is investigated. The results show that the atoms via the
exchange of virtual photons can be effectively equal to spin 1 Heisenberg model
under certain conditions. By tuning the laser fields, the parameters of the
effective Hamiltonian can be controlled individually.


Disentangling and broadcasting an entangled state simultaneously by
  asymmetric cloning

  We construct a quantum machine which, by using asymmetric cloner, deals with
disentangling and broadcasting entanglement in a single unitary evolution. The
attainable maximum value of the scaling parameter $s$ for disentangling is
identical to that obtained in previous works. The fidelity of the cloning state
with respect to the input entangled state is state-dependent.


Remote information concentration by GHZ state and by bound entangled
  state

  We compare remote information concentration by a maximally entangled GHZ
state with by an unlockable bound entangled state. We find that the bound
entangled state is as useful as the GHZ state, even do better than the GHZ
state in the context of communication security.


On Log-concavity of the Generalized Marcum Q Function

  It is shown that, if nu >= 1/2 then the generalized Marcum Q function Q_nu(a,
b) is log-concave in 0<=b <infty. This proves a conjecture of Sun, Baricz and
Zhou (2010). We also point out relevant results in the statistics literature.


Quantum scattering theory of Fock states in high-dimensional spaces

  A quantum scattering theory is developed for Fock states scattered by
two-level systems in the free space. Compared to existing scattering theories
that treat incident light semi-classically, the theory fully quantizes the
incident light as Fock states. This non-perturbative method provides exact
scattering matrix.


Mutation of torsion pairs in triangulated categories and its geometric
  realization

  We introduce and study mutation of torsion pairs, as a generalization of
mutation of cluster tilting objects, rigid objects and maximal rigid objects.
It is proved that any mutation of a torsion pair is again a torsion pair. A
geometric realization of mutation of torsion pairs in the cluster category of
type $A_n$ or $A_{\infty}$ is given via rotation of Ptolemy diagrams.


3rd Order Temporal Correlation Function of Pseudo-Thermal Light

  This experiment reports a nontrivial third-order temporal correlation of
chaotic-thermal light in which the randomly radiated thermal light is observed
to have a 6-times greater chance of being captured by three individual
photodetectors simultaneously than that of being captured by three
photodetectors at different times (separated by the coherent time of
pseudo-thermal light), indicating a "three-photon bunching" effect. The
nontrivial correlation of thermal light is the result of multi-photon
interference.


Cotorsion pairs in cluster categories of type $A_{\infty}^{\infty}$

  In this paper, we give a complete classification of cotorsion pairs in a
cluster category $\mathscr{C}$ of type $A^\infty_\infty$ via certain
configurations of arcs, called $\tau$-compact Ptolemy diagrams, in an infinite
strip with marked points. As applications, we classify $t$-structures and
functorially finite rigid subcategories in $\mathscr{C}$, respectively. We also
deduce Liu-Paquette's classification of cluster tilting categories of
$\mathscr{C}$ and Ng's classification of torsion pairs in the cluster category
of type $A_\infty$.


Silted algebras

  We study endomorphism algebras of 2-term silting complexes in derived
categories of hereditary finite dimensional algebras, or more generally of
$\mathop{\rm Ext}\nolimits$-finite hereditary abelian categories. Module
categories of such endomorphism algebras are known to occur as hearts of
certain bounded $t$-structures in such derived categories. We show that the
algebras occurring are exactly the algebras of small homological dimension,
which are algebras characterized by the property that each indecomposable
module either has injective dimension at most one, or it has projective
dimension at most one.


Endomorphism algebras of 2-term silting complexes

  We study possible values of the global dimension of endomorphism algebras of
2-term silting complexes. We show that for any algebra $A$ whose global
dimension $\mathop{\rm gl. dim}\nolimits A\leq 2$ and any 2-term silting
complex $\mathbf{P}$ in the bounded derived category ${D^b(A)}$ of $A$, the
global dimension of $\mathop{\rm End}\nolimits_{D^b(A)}(\mathbf{P})$ is at most
7. We also show that for each $n>2$, there is an algebra $A$ with $\mathop{\rm
gl. dim}\nolimits A=n$ such that ${D^b(A)}$ admits a 2-term silting complex
$\mathbf{P}$ with $\mathop{\rm gl. dim}\nolimits \mathop{\rm
End}\nolimits_{D^b(A)}(\mathbf{P})$ infinite.


Ultimate Generalization to Monotonicity for Uniform Convergence of
  Trigonometric Series

  Chaundy and Jolliffe [4] proved that if $\{a_{n}\}$ is a non-increasing
(monotonic) real sequence with $\lim\limits_{n\to \infty}a_{n}=0$, then a
necessary and sufficient condition for the uniform convergence of the series
$\sum_{n=1}^{\infty}a_{n}\sin nx$ is $ \lim\limits_{n\to \infty}na_{n}=0$. We
generalize (or weaken) the monotonic condition on the coefficient sequence
$\{a_{n}\}$ in this classical result to the so-called mean value bounded
variation condition and prove that the generalized condition cannot be weakened
further. We also establish an analogue to the generalized Chaundy and Jolliffe
theorem in the complex space.


Scalable fault-tolerant quantum computation in DFS blocks

  We investigate how to concatenate different decoherence-free subspaces (DFSs)
to realize scalable universal fault-tolerant quantum computation. Based on
tunable $XXZ$ interactions, we present an architecture for scalable quantum
computers which can fault-tolerantly perform universal quantum computation by
manipulating only single type of parameter. By using the concept of
interaction-free subspaces we eliminate the need to tune the couplings between
logical qubits, which further reduces the technical difficulties for
implementing quantum computation.


A Visual Attention Grounding Neural Model for Multimodal Machine
  Translation

  We introduce a novel multimodal machine translation model that utilizes
parallel visual and textual information. Our model jointly optimizes the
learning of a shared visual-language embedding and a translator. The model
leverages a visual attention grounding mechanism that links the visual
semantics with the corresponding textual semantics. Our approach achieves
competitive state-of-the-art results on the Multi30K and the Ambiguous COCO
datasets. We also collected a new multilingual multimodal product description
dataset to simulate a real-world international online shopping scenario. On
this dataset, our visual attention grounding model outperforms other methods by
a large margin.


Designing the unambiguous discriminator from the one -photon
  interferometer

  In this paper, we shall show that the question of quanum state unambiguous
discrimination can be solved by reducing it to the known problem of quantum
states filtering.


Rethinking Diversified and Discriminative Proposal Generation for Visual
  Grounding

  Visual grounding aims to localize an object in an image referred to by a
textual query phrase. Various visual grounding approaches have been proposed,
and the problem can be modularized into a general framework: proposal
generation, multi-modal feature representation, and proposal ranking. Of these
three modules, most existing approaches focus on the latter two, with the
importance of proposal generation generally neglected. In this paper, we
rethink the problem of what properties make a good proposal generator. We
introduce the diversity and discrimination simultaneously when generating
proposals, and in doing so propose Diversified and Discriminative Proposal
Networks model (DDPN). Based on the proposals generated by DDPN, we propose a
high performance baseline model for visual grounding and evaluate it on four
benchmark datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that our model delivers
significant improvements on all the tested data-sets (e.g., 18.8\% improvement
on ReferItGame and 8.2\% improvement on Flickr30k Entities over the existing
state-of-the-arts respectively)


Decorated marked surfaces III: The derived category of a decorated
  marked surface

  We study the Ginzburg dg algebra $\Gamma_\mathbf{T}$ associated to the quiver
with potential arising from a triangulation $\mathbf{T}$ of a decorated marked
surface $\mathbf{S}_\bigtriangleup$, in the sense of Qiu. We show that there is
a canonical way to identify all finite dimensional derived categories
$\mathcal{D}_{fd}(\Gamma_\mathbf{T})$, denoted by
$\mathcal{D}_{fd}(\mathbf{S}_\bigtriangleup)$. As an application, we show that
the spherical twist group $\operatorname{ST}(\mathbf{S}_\bigtriangleup)$
associated to $\mathcal{D}_{fd}(\mathbf{S}_\bigtriangleup)$ acts faithfully on
its space of stability conditions.


On $q$-ratio CMSV for sparse recovery

  Sparse recovery aims to reconstruct an unknown spare or approximately sparse
signal from significantly few noisy incoherent linear measurements. As a kind
of computable incoherence measure of the measurement matrix, $q$-ratio
constrained minimal singular values (CMSV) was proposed in Zhou and Yu
\cite{zhou2018sparse} to derive the performance bounds for sparse recovery. In
this paper, we study the geometrical property of the $q$-ratio CMSV, based on
which we establish new sufficient conditions for signal recovery involving both
sparsity defect and measurement error. The $\ell_1$-truncated set $q$-width of
the measurement matrix is developed as the geometrical characterization of
$q$-ratio CMSV. In addition, we show that the $q$-ratio CMSVs of a class of
structured random matrices are bounded away from zero with high probability as
long as the number of measurements is large enough, therefore satisfy those
established sufficient conditions. Overall, our results generalize the results
in Zhang and Cheng \cite{zc} from $q=2$ to any $q\in(1,\infty]$ and complement
the arguments of $q$-ratio CMSV from a geometrical view.


Multi-modal Factorized Bilinear Pooling with Co-Attention Learning for
  Visual Question Answering

  Visual question answering (VQA) is challenging because it requires a
simultaneous understanding of both the visual content of images and the textual
content of questions. The approaches used to represent the images and questions
in a fine-grained manner and questions and to fuse these multi-modal features
play key roles in performance. Bilinear pooling based models have been shown to
outperform traditional linear models for VQA, but their high-dimensional
representations and high computational complexity may seriously limit their
applicability in practice. For multi-modal feature fusion, here we develop a
Multi-modal Factorized Bilinear (MFB) pooling approach to efficiently and
effectively combine multi-modal features, which results in superior performance
for VQA compared with other bilinear pooling approaches. For fine-grained image
and question representation, we develop a co-attention mechanism using an
end-to-end deep network architecture to jointly learn both the image and
question attentions. Combining the proposed MFB approach with co-attention
learning in a new network architecture provides a unified model for VQA. Our
experimental results demonstrate that the single MFB with co-attention model
achieves new state-of-the-art performance on the real-world VQA dataset. Code
available at https://github.com/yuzcccc/mfb.


The Triality of Conformal Extensions of Three Kinds of Special
  Relativity

  The conformal extensions of three kinds of special relativity with
ISO(1,3)/SO(1,4)/SO(2,3) invariance on Mink/dS/AdS space, respectively, are
realized on an SO(2,4)/Z_2 invariant projective null cone [N] as the
(projective) boundary of the 5-d AdS-space. The relations among the conformal
Mink/dS/AdS spaces, the motions of light signals and the conformal field
theories on them can be given. Thus, there should be a triality for these
conformal issues and the conjectured AdS/CFT correspondence.


SUMO Substrates and Sites Prediction Combining Pattern Recognition and
  Phylogenetic Conservation

  Small Ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) proteins are widely expressed in
eukaryotic cells, which are reversibly coupled to their substrates by motif
recognition, called sumoylation. Two interesting questions are 1) how many
potential SUMO substrates may be included in mammalian proteomes, such as human
and mouse, 2) and given a SUMO substrate, can we recognize its sumoylation
sites? To answer these two questions, previous prediction systems of SUMO
substrates mainly adopted the pattern recognition methods, which could get high
sensitivity with relatively too many potential false positives. So we use
phylogenetic conservation between mouse and human to reduce the number of
potential false positives.


Idealization Second Quantization of Composite Particles

  A practical method is developed to deal with the second quantization of the
many-body system containing the composite particles. In our treatment, the
modes associated with composite particles are regarded approximately as
independent ones compared with those of unbound particles. The field operators
of the composite particles thus arise naturally in the second quantization
Hamiltonian. To be emphasized, the second quantization Hamiltonian has the
regular structures which correspond clearly to different physical processes.


Flavor SU(3) analysis of charmless B->PP decays

  We perform a global fits to charmless $B \to PP$ decays which independently
constrain the $(\bar\rho,\bar\eta)$ vertex of the unitarity triangle. The
fitted amplitudes and phase are used to predict the branching ratios and CP
asymmetries of all decay modes, including those of the $B_s$ system. Different
schemes of SU(3) breaking in decay amplitude sizes are analyzed. The
possibility of having a new physics contribution to $K \pi$ decays is also
discussed.


Entanglement generation in double-$Λ$ system

  In this paper, we study the generation of entanglement in a double-$\Lambda $
system. Employing standard method of laser theory, we deduce the dynamic
evolution equation of the two-mode field. We analyze the available entanglement
criterion for double-$\Lambda $ system and the condition of entanglement
existence. Our results show that under proper parameters, the two-mode field
can entangled and amlified.


$Δ$ contribution in $e^+ + e^- \to p + \bar{p}$ at small $s$

  Two-photon annihilate contributions in the process $e^+ + e^- \to p +
\bar{p}$ including $N$ and $\Delta$ intermediate are discussed in a simple
hadronic model. The corrections to the unpolarized cross section and polarized
observables $P_x,P_z$ are presented. The results show the two-photon annihilate
correction to unpolarized cross section is small and its angle dependence
becomes weak at small $s$ after considering the $N$ and $\Delta(1232)$
contributions simultaneously, while the correction to $P_z$ is enhanced.


A Prefixed-Itemset-Based Improvement For Apriori Algorithm

  Association rules is a very important part of data mining. It is used to find
the interesting patterns from transaction databases. Apriori algorithm is one
of the most classical algorithms of association rules, but it has the
bottleneck in efficiency. In this article, we proposed a prefixed-itemset-based
data structure for candidate itemset generation, with the help of the structure
we managed to improve the efficiency of the classical Apriori algorithm.


Design of a large dynamic range readout unit for the PSD detector of
  DAMPE

  A large dynamic range is required by the Plastic Scintillator Detector (PSD)
of DArk Matter Paricle Explorer (DAMPE), and a double-dynode readout has been
developed. To verify this design, a prototype detector module has been
constructed and tested with cosmic rays and heavy ion beams. The results match
with the estimation and the readout unit could easily cover the required
dynamic range.


Feature Sampling Strategies for Action Recognition

  Although dense local spatial-temporal features with bag-of-features
representation achieve state-of-the-art performance for action recognition, the
huge feature number and feature size prevent current methods from scaling up to
real size problems. In this work, we investigate different types of feature
sampling strategies for action recognition, namely dense sampling, uniformly
random sampling and selective sampling. We propose two effective selective
sampling methods using object proposal techniques. Experiments conducted on a
large video dataset show that we are able to achieve better average recognition
accuracy using 25% less features, through one of proposed selective sampling
methods, and even remain comparable accuracy while discarding 70% features.


A versatile PMT test bench and its application in the DAMPE-PSD

  A versatile test bench system, dedicated for massive PMT characterization, is
developed at the Institute of Modern Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. It
can perform many test contents with large capacity and high level of
automation, and the migration from one testing configuration to another is
lightweight and time-saving. This system has been used in the construction of
the Plastic Scintillator Detector of DArk Matter Particle Explorer already, and
a total of 570 Hamamatsu R4443 tubes have been tested successfully.


Occupation times of general Lévy processes

  For an arbitrary L\'evy process $X$ which is not a compound Poisson process,
we are interested in its occupation times. We use a quite novel and useful
approach to derive formulas for the Laplace transform of the joint distribution
of $X$ and its occupation times. Our formulas are compact, and more
importantly, the forms of the formulas clearly demonstrate the essential
quantities for the calculation of occupation times of $X$. It is believed that
our results are important not only for the study of stochastic processes, but
also for financial applications.


Estimation of block sparsity in compressive sensing

  In this paper, we consider a soft measure of block sparsity,
$k_\alpha(\mathbf{x})=\left(\lVert\mathbf{x}\rVert_{2,\alpha}/\lVert\mathbf{x}\rVert_{2,1}\right)^{\frac{\alpha}{1-\alpha}},\alpha\in[0,\infty]$
and propose a procedure to estimate it by using multivariate isotropic
symmetric $\alpha$-stable random projections without sparsity or block sparsity
assumptions. The limiting distribution of the estimator is given. Some
simulations are conducted to illustrate our theoretical results.


Stable and robust $\ell_p$-constrained compressive sensing recovery via
  robust width property

  We study the recovery results of $\ell_p$-constrained compressive sensing
(CS) with $p\geq 1$ via robust width property and determine conditions on the
number of measurements for standard Gaussian matrices under which the property
holds with high probability. Our paper extends the existing results in Cahill
and Mixon (2014) from $\ell_2$-constrained CS to $\ell_p$-constrained case with
$p\geq 1$ and complements the recovery analysis for robust CS with $\ell_p$
loss function.


Phaseless compressive sensing using partial support information

  We study the recovery conditions of weighted $\ell_1$ minimization for
real-valued signal reconstruction from phaseless compressive sensing
measurements when partial support information is available. A strong restricted
isometry property condition is provided to ensure the stable recovery.
Moreover, we present the weighted null space property as the sufficient and
necessary condition for the success of $k$-sparse phaseless recovery via
weighted $\ell_1$ minimization. Numerical experiments are conducted to
illustrate our results.


Recovery analysis for weighted mixed $\ell_2/\ell_p$ minimization with
  $0<p\leq 1$

  We study the recovery conditions of weighted mixed $\ell_2/\ell_p\,(0<p\leq
1)$ minimization for block sparse signal reconstruction from compressed
measurements when partial block support information is available. We show that
the block $p$-restricted isometry property (RIP) can ensure the robust
recovery. Moreover, we present the sufficient and necessary condition for the
recovery by using weighted block $p$-null space property. The relationship
between the block $p$-RIP and the weighted block $p$-null space property has
been established. Finally, we illustrate our results with a series of numerical
experiments.


Sparse recovery based on q-ratio constrained minimal singular values

  We study verifiable sufficient conditions and computable performance bounds
for sparse recovery algorithms such as the Basis Pursuit, the Dantzig selector
and the Lasso estimator, in terms of a newly defined family of quality measures
for the measurement matrices. With high probability, the developed measures for
subgaussian random matrices are bounded away from zero as long as the number of
measurements is reasonably large. Comparing to the restricted isotropic
constant based performance analysis, the arguments in this paper are much more
concise and the obtained bounds are tighter. Numerical experiments are
presented to illustrate our theoretical results.


Coupling Techniques for Reasoning about Quantum Programs

  Relational verification of quantum programs has many potential applications
in security and other domains. We propose a relational program logic for
quantum programs. The interpretation of our logic is based on a quantum
analogue of probabilistic couplings. We use our logic to verify non-trivial
relational properties of quantum programs, including uniformity for samples
generated by the quantum Bernoulli factory, reliability of quantum
teleportation against noise (bit and phase flip), and equivalence of quantum
random walks.


Towards Efficient and Unbiased Implementation of Lipschitz Continuity in
  GANs

  Lipschitz continuity recently becomes popular in generative adversarial
networks (GANs). It was observed that the Lipschitz regularized discriminator
leads to improved training stability and sample quality. The mainstream
implementations of Lipschitz continuity include gradient penalty and spectral
normalization. In this paper, we demonstrate that gradient penalty introduces
undesired bias, while spectral normalization might be over restrictive. We
accordingly propose a new method which is efficient and unbiased. Our
experiments verify our analysis and show that the proposed method is able to
achieve successful training in various situations where gradient penalty and
spectral normalization fail.


Common Electronic Origin of Superconductivity in (Li,Fe)OHFeSe Bulk
  Superconductor and Single-Layer FeSe/SrTiO3 Films

  The mechanism of high temperature superconductivity in the iron-based
superconductors remains an outstanding issue in condensed matter physics. The
electronic structure, in particular the Fermi surface topology, is considered
to play an essential role in dictating the superconductivity. Recent revelation
of distinct electronic structure and possible high temperature
superconductivity with a transition temperature Tc above 65 K in the
single-layer FeSe films grown on the SrTiO3 substrate provides key information
on the roles of Fermi surface topology and interface in inducing or enhancing
superconductivity. Here we report high resolution angle-resolved photoemission
measurement on the electronic structure and superconducting gap of a novel
FeSe-based superconductor, (Li0.84Fe0.16)OHFe0.98Se, with a Tc at 41 K. We find
that this single-phase bulk superconductor shows remarkably similar electronic
behaviors to that of the superconducting single-layer FeSe/SrTiO3 film in terms
of Fermi surface topology, band structure and nearly isotropic superconducting
gap without nodes. These observations provide significant insights in
understanding high temperature superconductivity in the single-layer
FeSe/SrTiO3 film in particular, and the mechanism of superconductivity in the
iron-based superconductors in general.


Binary nonlinearization of the super AKNS system

  We establish the binary nonlinearization approach of the spectral problem of
the super AKNS system, and then use it to obtain the super finite-dimensional
integrable Hamiltonian system in supersymmetry manifold $\mathbb{R}^{4N|2N}$.
The super Hamiltonian forms and integrals of motion are given explicitly.


Global Asymptotics of the Discrete Chebyshev Polynomials

  In this paper, we study the asymptotics of the discrete Chebyshev polynomials
tn (z, N) as the degree grows to infinity. Global asymptotic formulas are
obtained as n \rightarrow \infty, when the ratio of the parameters n/N = c is a
constant in the interval (0, 1). Our method is based on a modified version of
the Riemann-Hilbert approach first introduced by Deift and Zhou.


On local property of absolute summability of factored Fourier series

  We establish two general theorems on the local properties of the absolute
summability of factored Fourier series by applying a recently defined absolute
summability, $\left\vert A,\alpha_{n}\right\vert _{k}$ summability, and the
class $\mathcal{S}\left( \alpha_{n},\phi_{n}\right) $, which generalize some
well known results and can be applied to improve many classical absolute
summability methods.


Comment on "Localization of 5D Elko Spinors on Minkowski Branes"

  We show that the statement in Yu-Xiao Liu, Xiang-Nan Zhou, Ke Yang and
Feng-Wei Chen [Phys. Rev. D 86 , 064012 (2012)] that the zero mode of ELKO
spinor is localized in some thin brane scenarios is not correct. This reopens
the problem of localization of ELKO spinors.


Software for cut-generating functions in the Gomory--Johnson model and
  beyond

  We present software for investigations with cut generating functions in the
Gomory-Johnson model and extensions, implemented in the computer algebra system
SageMath.


Equivariant Perturbation in Gomory and Johnson's Infinite Group Problem.
  V. Software for the continuous and discontinuous 1-row case

  We present software for investigations with cut-generating functions in the
Gomory--Johnson model and extensions, implemented in the computer algebra
system SageMath.


Centers and limit cycles of a generalized cubic Riccati system

  We obtain condition for existence of a center for a cubic planar differential
system, which can be considered as a polynomial subfamily of the generalized
Riccati system. We also investigate bifurcations of small limit cycles from the
components of the center variety of the system.


