On the Origin of the 2DEG Carrier Density at the LaAlO$_3$/SrTiO$_3$
  Interface

  Transport measurements of the two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) at the
LaAlO$_3$/SrTiO$_3$ interface have found a density of carriers much lower than
expected from the "polar catastrophe" arguments. From a detail
density-functional study, we suggest how this discrepancy may be reconciled. We
find that electrons occupy multiple subbands at the interface leading to a rich
array of transport properties. Some electrons are confined to a single
interfacial layer and susceptible to localization, while others with small
masses and extended over several layers are expected to contribute to
transport.


Stark broadening data for spectral lines of rare-earth elements: Nb III

  The electron-impact widths for 15 doubly charged Nb ion lines have been
theoretically determined by using the modified semiempirical method. Using the
obtained results, we considered the influence of the electron-impact mechanism
on line shapes in spectra of chemically peculiar stars and white dwarfs.


Josephson effect and spin-triplet pairing correlations in SF1F2S
  junctions

  We study theoretically the Josephson effect and pairing correlations in
planar SF1F2S junctions that consist of conventional superconductors (S)
connected by two metallic monodomain ferromagnets (F1 and F2) with transparent
interfaces. We obtain both spin-singlet and -triplet pair amplitudes and the
Josephson current-phase relations for arbitrary orientation of the
magnetizations using the self-consistent solutions of Eilenberger equations in
the clean limit and for a moderate disorder in ferromagnets. We find that the
long-range spin-triplet correlations cannot prevail in symmetric junctions with
equal ferromagnetic layers. Surprisingly, the long-range spin-triplet
correlations give the dominant second harmonic in the Josephson current-phase
relation of highly asymmetric SF1F2S junctions. The effect is robust against
moderate disorder and variations in the layers thickness and exchange energy of
ferromagnets.


Raman scattering study of phonon and spin modes in (TMTSF)2PF6

  We have studied polarized Raman spectra of (TMTSF)2PF6 single crystals in the
wide spectral and temperature range using different laser energies. We observed
and assigned 23 Raman active modes. The carbon C=C in-phase and out-of-phase
stretching modes at 1464 cm-1 and 1602 cm-1 show strong
electron-molecular-vibration coupling. The mode at about 1565 cm-1 is
temperature independent below 50 K due to the methyl group motion freezing. For
(TMTSF)2PF6 in the spin density wave phase for a temperature induced
dimensionality 1D (quarter filled dimerized linear chain with correlated
electrons) the spin gapless magnon spectra have been calculated. No evidence of
spin-lattice coupling or spin-related modes is found in the Raman spectra in
the spin density wave phase.


Odd triplet superconductivity in clean and moderately disordered SFFS
  junctions

  We study the Josephson effect and pairing correlations in SFFS junctions that
consist of conventional superconductors (S) connected through two metallic
monodomain ferromagnets (F) with transparent and spin inactive interfaces. We
solve the Eilenberger equations for arbitrary relative orientation of
magnetizations of the two F layers in the clean limit and for moderate disorder
in ferromagnets. Spatial variation of pair amplitudes, singlet $f_s$, and odd
in frequency triplet $f_{t0}$ and $f_{t1}$, with 0 and $\pm1$ spin projections,
as well as the Josephson current-phase relations are calculated for different
values of the ferromagnetic layers thickness and angle $\alpha$ between
in-plane magnetizations. In contrast to the dirty limit case, we find that for
$0<\alpha<\pi$ both spin singlet and triplet pair amplitudes in F layers
power-law decay in the same oscillatory manner with distance from the FS
interfaces. This decay gets faster as the impurity-scattering rate in
ferromagnets is increased. The computed triplet amplitude $f_{t1}$ has opposite
signs in the two magnet regions, penetrates into the superconductors and
monotonically decays over the same distance, which is the superconducting
coherence length, as the singlet amplitude $f_s$ saturates to the bulk value.
We point out that influence of misorientation of magnetizations on the
Josephson current can not be attributed directly to the appearance of odd
triplet correlations.


Optical Properties of the Spin-Ladder Compound Sr_{14}Cu_{24}O_{41}

  We report the measurements of the pseudodielectric function, far-infrared
reflectivity and Raman scattering spectra in Sr_{14}Cu_{24}O_{41} single
crystal. We study the lattice and the spin dynamics of the Cu$_2$O$_3$ spin
ladders and CuO$_2$ chains of this compound. The ellipsometric and the optical
reflectivity measurements yield the gap values of 1.4 eV, 1.86 eV, 2.34 eV (2.5
eV) for the ladders (chains) along the {\bf c}-axis and 2.4 eV along the {\bf
a}-axis. The electronic structure of the Cu$_2$O$_3$ ladders is analyzed using
tight-binding approach for the correlated electron systems. The correlation gap
value of 1.4 eV is calculated with the transfer energy (hopping) parameters
$t=t_{0}$=0.26 eV, along and perpendicular to legs, $t_{xy}$=0.026 eV
(interladder hopping) and U=2.1 eV, as a Coulomb repulsion. The optical
parameters of the infrared active phonons and plasmons are obtained by
oscillator fitting procedure of the reflectivity spectra. Raman scattering
spectra are measured at different temperatures using different laser line
energies. The two-magnon peak is observed at about 2880 cm$^{-1}$. At
temperatures below 150 K the new infrared and Raman modes appear due to the
charge ordering.


Polarized far-infrared and Raman spectra of SrCuO2 single crystals

  We measured polarized far-infrared reflectivity and Raman scattering spectra
of SrCuO$_2$ single crystals. The frequencies for infrared-active modes were
determined using an oscillator-fitting procedure of reflectivity data. The
Raman spectra were measured at different temperatures using several laser
energies $\omega_L$. In addition to eight of twelve Raman active modes,
predicted by factor-group analysis, we observed a complex structure in the
Raman spectra for polarization parallel to the {\bf c}-axis, which consists of
Raman-allowed A$_g$ symmetry modes, and B$_{1u}$ LO infrared-active
(Raman-forbidden) modes of the first and higher order as well as their
combinations. The Raman-forbidden modes have a stronger intensity at higher
$\omega_L$ than the Raman-allowed ones. In order to explain this resonance
effect, we measured the dielectric function and optical reflection spectra of
SrCuO$_2$ in the visible range. We show that the Raman-allowed A$_g$ symmetry
modes are resonantly enhanced when a laser energy is close to $E_0$, while
Raman-forbidden (IR-active) modes resonate strongly for laser line energies
close to the electronic transition of higher energy gaps.


Optical studies of gap, hopping energies and the Anderson-Hubbard
  parameter in the zigzag-chain compound SrCuO2

  We have investigated the electronic structure of the zigzag ladder (chain)
compound SrCuO2 combining polarized optical absorption, reflection,
photoreflectance and pseudo-dielectric function measurements with the model
calculations. These measurements yield an energy gap of 1.42 eV (1.77 eV) at
300 K along (perpendicular) to the Cu-O chains. We have found that the lowest
energy gap, the correlation gap, is temperature independent. The electronic
structure of this oxide is calculated using both the
local-spin-density-approximation with gradient correction method, and the
tight-binding theory for the correlated electrons. The calculated density of
electronic states for non-correlated and correlated electrons shows
quasi-one-dimensional character. The correlation gap values of 1.42 eV
(indirect transition) and 1.88 eV (direct transition) have been calculated with
the electron hopping parameters t = 0.30 eV (along a chain), t_yz = 0.12 eV
(between chains) and the Anderson-Hubbard repulsion on copper sites U= 2.0 eV.
We concluded that SrCuO_2 belongs to the correlated-gap insulators.


Charge density wave modulation and gap measurements in CeTe$_3$

  We present a study of charge density wave (CDW) ordering in CeTe$_3$ at room
temperature using a scanning tunneling microscope and Raman spectroscopy. Two
characteristic CDW ordering wavevectors obtained from the Fourier analysis are
assessed to be $|{\bf \textbf{c}}^\ast-{\bf q}|=4.19\,{\rm nm}^{-1}$ and $|{\bf
q}|=10.26\,{\rm nm}^{-1}$ where $|{\bf c}^\ast| = 2\pi/c$ is the reciprocal
lattice vector. The scanning tunneling spectroscopy measurements, along with
inelastic light (Raman) scattering measurements, show a CDW gap $\Delta_{\rm
max}$ of approximately 0.37 eV. In addition to the CDW modulation, we observe
an organization of the Te sheet atoms in an array of alternating V- and N-
groups along the CDW modulation, as predicted in the literature.


Frustrated spin order and stripe fluctuations in FeSe

  The charge and spin dynamics of the structurally simplest iron-based
superconductor, FeSe, may hold the key to understanding the physics of high
temperature superconductors in general. Unlike the iron pnictides, FeSe lacks
long range magnetic order in spite of a similar structural transition around
90\,K. Here, we report results of Raman scattering experiments as a function of
temperature and polarization, compared to simulations from a frustrated spin
model. Both experiment and theory find a persistent low energy peak close to
500\,cm$^{-1}$ in $B_{1g}$ symmetry, which softens slightly around 100\,K, that
we assign to spin excitations. By comparing with results from neutron
scattering, this study provides evidence for nearly frustrated stripe order in
FeSe.


Electronic structure and optical properties of Sr$_2$IrO$_4$ under
  epitaxial strain

  We study the modification of the electronic structure in the strong
spin-orbit coupled Sr$_2$IrO$_4$ by epitaxial strain using density functional
methods. Structural optimization shows that strain changes the internal
structural parameters such as the Ir-O-Ir bond angle, which has an important
effect on the band structure. An interesting prediction is the $\Gamma - $X
crossover of the valence band maximum with strain, while the conduction minimum
at M remains unchanged. This in turn suggests strong strain dependence of the
transport properties for the hole doped system, but not when the system is
electron-doped. Taking the measured value of the $\Gamma-X$ separation for the
unstrained case, we predict the $\Gamma - $X crossover of the valence band
maximum to occur for the tensile epitaxial strain $e_{xx} \approx 3\%$. A
minimal tight-binding model within the $J_{\rm eff} = 1/2$ subspace is
developed to describe the main features of the band structure. The optical
absorption spectra under epitaxial strain are computed using density-functional
theory, which explains the observed anisotropy in the optical spectra with the
polarization of the incident light. We show that the optical transitions
between the Ir (d) states, which are dipole forbidden, can be explained in
terms of the admixture of Ir (p) orbitals with the Ir (d) bands.


